---
title: Kadena Telegram AMA with TehMoonWalker, May 27 2021 Transcript
description:
  Welcome fellas on this glorious Wednesday evening. Very stoked to have you
  here with us and really looking forward to all the knowledge you are about to
  share.
menu: AMA with TehMoonWalker, May 29 2021 Transcript
label: AMA with TehMoonWalker, May 29 2021 Transcript
publishDate: 2021-05-29
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

# Kadena Telegram AMA with TehMoonWalker, May 27 2021 Transcript

## Opening Remarks

**Blaze (TMW)**: Welcome fellas on this glorious Wednesday evening. Very stoked
to have you here with us and really looking forward to all the knowledge you are
about to share.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: Thank you! We’re stoked to be hanging out here too!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena)**: Thanks! Excited to be here.

## Questions and Answers

## Kadena Team’s Background

**Blaze (TMW)**: I know you guys are helluva busy so without further ado, let’s
get this AMA cracking. Let’s start off with an intro. Please tell us more about
your backgrounds and your roles at Kadena?

I think this is gonna take a while as I am led to believe that you guys have
some of the most impressive backgrounds in the space currently.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Hi I’m Stuart! I’m the CEO of Kadena, and before
that, I built the blockchain team at JP Morgan, been in tech for 25 years, and
love blockchain and smart contracts. I’m the author of the Pact smart contract
language — my cofounder Will is the inventor of the Chainweb scalable BFT
protocol used by Kadena.

I’m also heavily involved in the Kaddex design, drawing on my 15 years of
background in algorithmic trading systems.

**Blaze (TMW):** Wow, that is truly impressive especially coming from such a
lauded company as JP Morgan.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** I’ve been in the software business for close to 18
years. Over that time I’ve worked in defense, security, finance, and in a few
startups building frontend and backend web apps. I’ve been programming Haskell
professionally for 11 years which is what led me to meeting the Kadena team. Now
I’m Kadena’s Director of Engineering and love working with the talented team of
engineers we have.

**Blaze (TMW):** Equally as impressive, damn, Kadena really does have the best
guys building it all out. So for those poor souls that have no idea what you do,
please give us a little rundown on what Kadena is all about and what can we do
with it?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** In general, **our team exists to bring serious
technology for scaling to blockchain **— serious from financial, from security,
from regulatory, from engineering. It takes all of that to build the right
system to settle all the world’s financial assets.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** We’ve solved the elusive problem of scaling Proof
of Work. In other words, we won’t be crushed by gas fees down the road as the
transaction volume grows.

## Why POW over other Consensuses?

**Blaze (TMW):** I hear that besides this all-star team you have even more
impressive advisors, namely Stuart Haber who is the most cited professor from
the BTC whitepaper.

Isn’t there quite a large shift away from POW at the moment and why is your POW
better than all other consensuses then?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Kadena is the first and only scalable POW smart
contract blockchain, and it has the safest smart contract language Pact.

> With our multi-chain design, we will be able to not just maintain throughput
> without congestion, but scale **financial markets** with Kaddex to provide the
> kind of mature system seen in e.g. **the US stock market multi-venue system**.
> With gas stations, the problem of gas volatility vanishes, and users enjoy
> free transactions.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Along with solving the scalability problem we’ve
also innovated in a number of other areas. For example, our smart contract
language Pact makes it easier to write smart contracts with fewer bugs. And
other decisions with core pieces of infrastructure will be a path to innovations
elsewhere in the ecosystem as well. Things like safe transfers, native support
for multi-sig, etc, which will ultimately make it easier and safer for the
masses to own crypto.

## Kadena and Energy Efficiency

**Blaze (TMW):** I suppose with Elon raising the greenness of POW being an
issue, is your’s more energy efficient too? For the sake of education as we have
many newbies that have joined of late. What are some key differentiators of
Kadena vs let’s say ETH, DOT, SOL, EGLD etc?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: Ours is more efficient than Bitcoin and Ethereum by
the linear factor of a number of braided chains. We are already 20x more
efficient, and the Kadena Chainweb protocol can scale to unlimited graph sizes —
for the same hashrate, hash for hash, you get **10x/100x/10000x more**
transactions.

**Blaze (TMW):** That’s a huge advantage already and I am sure you will tap into
renewable energies to bring that carbon footprint down to a negligible amount

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** POW’s big problem is inefficiency. With a properly
efficient system, we can focus on managing impact from there, encouraging
renewables along the lines of the Square paper, etc. But also, blockchain itself
is still new, and POW is the only proven secure consensus.

**Blaze (TMW):** Yeah a decade isn’t a lot of time really. Still youngblood so
to speak. Can you elaborate more on why your POW is so more efficient than
current offerings?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** It makes for a way better token too. $KDA is not
implicated in the security of the platform so you can leverage it with
confidence. With POS you entangle the token and apps on the platform.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** First of all, the claim that PoW doesn’t scale in
terms of energy/transaction fundamentally misunderstands the way PoW works. More
transactions don’t require more energy. Just because Bitcoin uses a lot of
energy doesn’t mean that it **has to**. Secondly, if you’re absolutely dead-set
on looking at the flawed metric of energy/transaction, we win there because we
can scale.

> As Bitcoin uses more and more energy the number of transactions it can process
> stays the same. But with Kadena, we can scale up our transaction capacity. So
> we can tap into energy efficiency that the other networks can’t.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** If your DEX (Decentralized Exchange) is a CLP
(Continuous Liquidity Pool) and is secured with the platform token, and you’re
POS, you have a security problem AND a liquidity problem. With POW, KDA offers
supreme liquidity and will never be drawn into a security-vs-liquidity shootout.

**Blaze (TMW):** Didn’t realize that, can you break it down a bit simpler for us
why that is the case?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: It’s just if your DEX is predicated on massive
liquidity, and you’re running a proof-of-stake with the same token, you’re
creating a huge incentive to divert capital from staking and into
bonding/lending/AMM’ing on the DEX. Which of course is touted as a feature —
“too big to fail”. Crypto isn’t that big yet, so attacks are likely.

## POW vs POS

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Also…POS really isn’t decentralized at all. It’s a
group of stakeholders holding keys that control the network. Sounds a lot like
central banks to me. See
[https://medium.com/@factchecker9000/nothing-is-worse-than-proof-of-stake-e70b12b988ca](https://medium.com/@factchecker9000/nothing-is-worse-than-proof-of-stake-e70b12b988ca)
for more information.

**Blaze (TMW):** In a way, you are right but isn’t it the same for POW, where a
conglomerate of miners can run a monopoly?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena)**: That article says it pretty well. “_PoS is
permissioned by internally held tokens owned by a central party that can deny
entry to independent external parties._” With Proof of Work, existing parties
can’t deny anyone the ability to participate in the network.

> In my opinion, decentralization is not about the size of the group running
> things. It’s really about whether participation can be denied to newcomers by
> the existing entities with power. By that definition, PoS is not
> decentralized.

## Kadena’s Partnerships Wallets, Liquidity Partners, etc

**Blaze (TMW):** Will definitely have a read once we are done then.

Partnership-wise, I see you have had a rather exciting new partnership with
Torus. What do they bring to the table that strengthens Kadena’s offering? While
you are at it, what other partners do you have helping Kadena achieve what it
set out to do?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** All of our recent partnerships are about making the
user experience on Kadena shine, whether that’s Torus wallet for in-browser,

[Torus wallet](https://twitter.com/TorusLabs/status/1397946742453149696)

[ZelCore for wallet app](https://zel.network/zelcore-adds-kadena-assets-store-kda-across-multiple-chains),
and — this is new — Ledger integration!
[Tokensoft/Anchorage](./tokensoft-wrapped-kadenaswap-the-future-of-digital-value-2021-03-04)
for enabling massive high-quality liquidity in BTC and ETH.

Partnerships with
[Celo](https://medium.com/kadena-io/kadena-building-defi-bridge-to-celo-and-joining-alliance-for-prosperity-also-announcing-bounty-9ead803be8c3)
and
[Terra](https://medium.com/kadena-io/kadena-hybrid-blockchain-partners-with-programmable-money-leader-terra-to-expand-defi-ecosystem-47a2ac92edb1)
and native integrations with Cosmos and Polkadot mean that Kadena users will
eventually be able to reach every platform with the same security and comfort as
Kadena.

**Francesco (Kadena)**: Torus is an extremely user-friendly wallet that will
make signing transactions seamless for our dApps. The simplicity of signing in
with Google and other well-known SSOs combined with Kadena’s gas stations will
deliver a familiar experience and open the realm of possible apps that can be
deployed on a blockchain.

## Kadena’s Fees and Transactions Per Second TPS

**Blaze (TMW):** Probably get annoyed by this question but what sort of fees and
TPS are we looking at using Kadena? The old TPS questions.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Fees are easy: **none**! Gas stations + no
congestion means never having to even think about gas as a user.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Here’s a little infographic we have covering some
actual stats on transacttion fees paid during the testing phase of our upcoming
DEX.

![Statistics of our Bountyswap usage](/assets/blog/0_Y3_lwJbyTTLVrIz5.png)

## Purpose of the KDA Token

**Blaze (TMW):** Wow, that is top-notch, leads me straight into my next question
then. How does Kadena derive revenue to sustain itself? Token wise, why do we
need KDA and what can we do with it?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: Well, Kadena is unique in that, in addition, to
being the core project, we’re also heavily invested in helping other projects,
like Kaddex, bring mature apps to Kadena. So, in addition to the tokens, we have
exposure to other newly-issued tokens.

It’s a good question too. A lot of people think gas prices drive Eth. I’m not
denying it but wow what a dumb driver. Fees don’t really drive BTC.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** The answer to transaction fees is scalability. And
we’ve got that 🙂. But hey, don’t take it from me. This is widely agreed upon by
the industry.

[twitter feed](https://twitter.com/VitalikButerin/status/1300990520831877120)

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: Also, managing gas risk will become a mature
commodity infrastructure, as ideally gas should be transacted in a stablecoin.

## Kadena’s 2021 Roadmap

**Blaze (TMW):** That makes a helluva lot of sense. Having a token fluctuating
in value is absurd as a measure for gas fees.

With regards to the rest of the year, what does Kadena’s roadmap look like and
what are you most excited for?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: With Kadena, apps handle gas, so they can manage
that risk invisibly for the user.

> **Gas is a real issue, and killing even BSC now**, so we know POS isn’t a
> magic wand there. You have to actually scale, not just launch with fast
> finality and a high TPS.

**Blaze (TMW):** You are right, it started off swimmingly but even they are
feeling the pinch of tx volume increasing

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: For instance, with KDA, we’re launching a
[bridge relay](./announcing-the-kadena-chain-relay-2021-03-25?source=collection_home---5------4-----------------------)
secured through bonding, where stakers can take risks to earn up to 30% APY.
This puts a secure, decentralized foundation under our platform integrations
with Ethereum, Celo, Terra. We expect bonding to be massive and oversubscribed,
so that will lock up a lot of KDA 🙂!

**Blaze (TMW):** Well, this is sounding like a very strong buy to me for our
community. All this and you are sitting at $72m market cap and what you have
achieved thus far is reminiscent of a multi-billion cap.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena)**: I’m obviously super excited about our bridges like
Stuart mentioned. But I’d also like to add that I’m excited about the ecosystem
improvements we’re working on that will provide the building blocks for third
parties to create more powerful and user-friendly tools for the end-user. We’re
working on the unsexy things like indexers, APIs, data accessibility, etc. These
things probably don’t sound sexy to the average user, but what we’re really
trying to do is empower more developers to build apps that we haven’t even
thought of yet.

**Stuart Popejoy:** Yep, the vision is industrial scale. You don’t do that by
“running on a laptop” 😁.

**Blaze (TMW):** I would like to invite the community in now but before we do,
anything you would like to cover before we bring in the frothing community?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** We’re building a platform. And like Steve Ballmer
said

[Steve Ballmer said](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EMldOiiG1Ko)

…developers developers developers…developers developers…

**Blaze (TMW):** and Forrest Gump said, then I developed some more. An old adage
to his running scene

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: Yes, it’s really exciting all the new developers
coming to Pact. It makes Pact better with users asking for features and learning
about our token standards. \*\*\*\*Our new [NFT standard](http://bit.ly/kip0011)
is actually a “poly fungible” token, where you can even do fractional ownership
of assets alongside series, etc.

We are launching an NFT marketplace for a truly decentralized ecosystem. Users
will be able to both launch new NFT schemes and benefit from existing NFT
ledgers in the same place.

[NFT marketplace](https://twitter.com/kadena_io/status/1356717907447865362?lang=en)

## Community Questions

**Babu 6:** About your ecosystem, can you tell me what security system do you
have to guarantee privacy and protection to your users? Low liquidity is one of
the main problems with the DeFi, Project what are you going to do about it? Do
you have a liquidity provider program? What benefits for liquidity providers?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Liquidity is the single most interesting aspect of
DeFi, but you have to have a scalable platform, otherwise the risk associated
with gas spikes and congestion translates into massive exposure. So Kadena
solves that with scalable POW, but also with an approach to multi-chain
liquidity in Kaddex that incentivizes market makers to rebalance liquidity
across chains.

Cross-chain (multi-venue) liquidity is actually a meaningful way to reduce
volatility risk within the DEX, so this will provide a platform to experiment
with circuit breakers even. The point is, MMs will be compensated not just for
liquidity but for providing stability to the market.

**Chapito**: What are the advantages of Pact smart contracts using formal
verification? How does Pact intend to detect and remove critical errors in
contracts?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena)**: With formal verification, you can prove things
about your program _for all possible inputs_. This is something you simply can’t
do with the traditional approach of writing tests. We’re thrilled that Pact puts
powerful formal verification techniques into the hands of average developers for
perhaps the very first time. Pact is already very readable on its own. It’s not
Turing-complete so that adds another dimension of safety. And formal
verification comes in and adds value on top of these things.

Here’s an example of our formal verification happening live

[formal verification happening live](https://twitter.com/i/status/1365129147983536134).

A bug like this would be very difficult to find in practice. Even more so if
you’re depending on code written by other people. But Pact’s formal verification
will even take the code from other contracts into account to prove properties
about your contract.

You might say that this kind of thing proving something about negative numbers
is too simple. But it’s totally relevant to financial code where a negative sign
is the difference between depositing and withdrawing!

**Max**: Hey I been in KDA for a while, The wallet seems a bit complicated to
many. What plans do you haveto solve them, When there will be cross-chain
transfers applicable to exchanges?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Well that’s where today’s Torus announcement, our
upcoming Ledger integration, and a lot of work behind the scenes on signing APIs
(like what Doug was talking about) means that users will have a convenient and
safe way to do sophisticated transfers without the blank-check approvals you
have to give to Uniswap and friends.

There’s ever more frauds, flashloan attacks and such on DeFi these days so
having a secure, multi-sig Kadena signing integration is coming to every wallet.

**Amina Peter:** Why you have not announced your mining algo despite being a PoW
blockchain network? You claim to be the first open-source smart contract
language with Formal Verification (FV), but Tezos provides Formal Verification
too, is it different from yours? Or are there things I don’t understand pls
clarify?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** We announced our mining algo along with launch. We
use the Blake2s hashing function. Our mainnet has been live for less than two
years and we already have two companies manufacturing ASIC miners for Kadena.
They’re also very [profitable](https://www.asicminervalue.com/) right now!

**Doctor Strange:** How many wallets do your project support? Would you build
your own wallet? 👀

**Francesco:** Here are our currently available wallets:
[https://www.kadena.io/chainweaver.](https://www.kadena.io/chainweaver.) We also
just announced today an integration with Torus, stay tuned to see it in action
with Kaddex!

**Infoplus**: Back to KADENA Q3 Roadmap. Collaboration between Kadena Polkadot
and KadenaDOT Exploration. Why did you choose Polkadot? Why not choose a
cross-chain security protocol in Defi? Indeed, Polkadot is cashing in fast and
BSC is on-trend. Do you have any plans to join another chain? Are there any
plans to add your project to various blockchains in the future?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: We didn’t choose Polkadot, they chose us 🙂 . There
aren’t a lot of truly portable smart contract languages — for instance,
Solidity, you bring all the warts of Ethereum with it — and that’s why we
integrated pact into the Cosmos platform as Kadenamint. So really, Pact will be
on every smart contract platform that matters. This is separate from our direct
partnerships and integrations on the financial side where we bring assets over,
and Polkadot is further down the line there — Eth, Celo, Terra come first.

**Blaze (TMW)**: Anything last you would like to add fellas? Of course please
feel free to drop all the essential links. So our community can dive deep at
their own leisure.

**Francesco:** Please be sure to follow us on:

Twitter (twitter.com/kadena_io)

Telegram (https://t.me/kadena_io)

Discord (http://discord.io/kadena)

Reddit (https://www.reddit.com/r/kadena/

Medium (https://medium.com/kadena-io)

You can also subscribe to our [newsletter](https://upscri.be/9a9e56) for
in-depth updates on our project.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena)**: Just great to meet the Moonwalkers! Come check out
Kadena and KDA and Pact and get involved! Crypto is really just getting started
and we’re going to take it to the next level. Thanks for having us!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Thanks so much for inviting us. It’s always fun to
get the opportunity to talk about this project that we’ve poured our hearts and
souls into for the past several years.

**Blaze (TMW):** Thanks so much guys, really enjoyed it Top-notch breakdown of
what you do.

That concludes the AMA. If you are interested in reading the AMA directly from
Telegram, feel free to join TehMoonWalker’s Telegram and view the discussion
starting [here](https://t.me/tehmoonwalkers/966522). To get announcements about
Kadena’s progress in creating the best multi-platform DEX and DAO, follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/kadena_io),
[Discord](https://t.co/VK1m2oyh2L?amp=1),
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/kadena/), and
[Telegram](https://t.me/kadena_io).
