---
title: The Complete Crypto Wallet User Guide
description:
  In the field of blockchain, one of the first experiences that users typically
  have is with a “crypto wallet.” While cryptocurrency is one of many use cases
  for blockchain, it is the most popular and interesting for new participants.
  Even in the early days of this technology, there is already an overwhelmingly
  broad variety of crypto wallet providers. Their fea
menu: The Complete Crypto Wallet User Guide
label: The Complete Crypto Wallet User Guide
publishDate: 2019-11-20
author: Taylor Rolfe
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/2019/1_byNwUdcRqQV2pExRsgK5KA.webp)

# The Complete Crypto Wallet User Guide

### _A visual walkthrough and comparison of features_

In the field of blockchain, one of the first experiences that users typically
have is with a “crypto wallet.” While cryptocurrency is one of many use cases
for blockchain, it is the most popular and interesting for new participants.
Even in the early days of this technology, there is already an overwhelmingly
broad variety of crypto wallet providers. Their feature sets are vast, as is
their approach to user experience and security.

To understand user experience (UX) is to appreciate the power and nuance behind
the forces that shape human behavior. Great UX evokes a feeling of ease &
delight. Designing an elegant experience requires careful thought for every
moment and movement in the user’s journey.

When it comes to asset management tools such as crypto wallets, or even Venmo
accounts, the bottom line is that they must provide value to the user. To
understand and compare how effectively these crypto wallets perform their job,
let’s look at the experience of using a crypto wallet in 6 distinct user
journeys. When using a crypto wallet for the first time, you will have to:

1.  Set-up your account

2.  Get familiar with the home screen

3.  Receive funds

4.  Send funds (i.e. sign a transaction)

5.  View wallet activity (i.e. transaction history)

6.  Configure some settings

In this article, we will explore many of today’s popular crypto wallets and
discuss noteworthy differences and similarities between them. This analysis
covers 18 crypto wallets, with a focus on those created primarily for securing
and transacting cryptocurrency (not the more advanced, developer-focused “smart
contract wallets”). Coverage includes most crypto wallet types such as desktop,
web/online, mobile and hardware wallets, as well as multi- and single-currency
variations therein. **The purpose of this article is to serve as a visual
reference of crypto wallets and to provide a comprehensive feature matrix
comparing them all so that people can make informed choices about where to
secure their own valuable digital assets.**

tl;dr — see image below

![](/assets/blog/2019/1_tEA_fMNfsI8hnH_M7BEF0w.webp)

(View a high-resolution version
**[here](https://photos.app.goo.gl/QGDJdA3YWv9GSqaN8)**.)

## THE UX OF MONEY

Before we dive into the world of crypto, let’s take a brief look at the most
common means by which people typically transfer value.

First, we have good old-fashioned paper money, backed by your local government.
The UX for hard cash isn’t so bad, especially at a small scale. Paper isn’t too
heavy and it comes in some convenient denominations. A major UX flaw, however,
is its physical form. Using cash typically means you have to leave your house
and physically exchange it with another human within your preferred travel
range.

The UX features of cash were then improved by bank checks. Although they are
still physical in form, checks can be written in any denomination and one paper
check always weighs the same, no matter how much it's worth. Again, its physical
form (plus tons of forgery) produced sub-optimal results from a UX perspective.
Just listen to this
[Planet Money podcast episode](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2018/01/10/576879734/episode-489-the-invisible-plumbing-of-our-economy)
to learn about the insane process for settling checks.

This brings us to credit cards, an invention from the 1950s, which we’ve come to
embrace. Now, when you want to purchase something online today, all you have to
do is:

- Enter your first & last name

- Enter your personal email address

- Enter your home shipping address

- Enter your phone number (usually)

- Enter your billing address

- Enter your credit card info: 16 digit credit card number + 4 digit expiration
  date + 3 or 4 digit security code

This is a lot of personally identifiable information. Not only that, the user
experience is cumbersome & time consuming. Further, people continue to
repeatedly endure this process of exposing some of their most valuable personal
information with many merchants all over the internet. To this day, there still
exists a clear opportunity to further improve the UX of money.

Attempting to influence established human behavior is often a futile effort.
However, a brief look at the history of credit card adoption in the 1950s draws
clear parallels to the state of cryptocurrency adoption today. Before reaching
widespread adoption, credit cards faced numerous challenges including a lack of
infrastructure, security vulnerabilities, an uneducated user base, fierce
competition, and a lack of regulations.

So which of the credit card’s established conventions should be preserved in
crypto wallets, and which need reinventing? While some crypto wallets draw
heavily from familiar UX conventions, others completely reimagine asset
management. However, there is a costly tradeoff between familiarity and novelty.
People don’t like adapting their behaviors, but if the added value of doing so
is great enough, then you can establish a new “normal.”

## SO WHAT DOES A “CRYPTO WALLET” DO?

The single attribute that constitutes a “crypto wallet” is that it stores
private keys. That’s it. (A more accurate term would be “private key custody
mechanism,” but that isn’t as catchy.) Any other feature that a crypto wallet
provides is simply an attempt to either make it easier to use or harder to hack.

This relationship between usability (ease of use) and security (difficulty to
hack) is what defines the whole crypto wallet landscape. For the most part,
usability and security are inversely related. To make something more secure, it
will likely require more complex or obscure operations to access, resulting in
poorer usability. Think of these two dimensions as being measured on a spectrum.
The ideal crypto wallet is effortless to use and impossible to hack. However,
since the ideal crypto wallet doesn’t exist, we have to settle for the reality
of tradeoffs.

## CUSTODY AS A SERVICE

As the name implies, cryptocurrency is a form of currency, and there are
countless ways to use and store it. You likely keep some money in a physical
wallet, a bank account, under your mattress, in a PayPal / Venmo account, or in
a variety of investment vehicles such as stocks or bonds. Each of these “custody
mechanisms” performs a specific job. Accordingly, some are easier to use and
others are more secure. Similarly, we will likely experience a future in which
each person uses a variety of cryptocurrency custody mechanisms, each of which
will serve a different purpose.

Until that future is realized, here’s a guide to today’s competitive landscape
of crypto wallets.

The 18 crypto wallets evaluated are:

**WEB WALLETS **Coinbase (multi-currency) Portis (multi-currency) BitGo
(multi-currency) MetaMask (Ethereum only) MyEtherWallet CX (Ethereum only)
Dapper (Ethereum only) Bitski Beta (Ethereum only)

**DESKTOP WALLETS **Coinomi (multi-currency) Exodus (multi-currency) Jaxx
(multi-currency) Electrum (Bitcoin only)

**MOBILE WALLETS **Trust Wallet (multi-currency) Coinbase Wallet
(multi-currency) Enjin (multi-currency) Argent (Ethereum only) Mycelium (Bitcoin
only) Spot (Bitcoin only)

**HARDWARE WALLET **Ledger Live with Nano S (multi-currency)

## USER JOURNEY 1: ACCOUNT SET-UP

This user journey is critical for establishing account security. The security
scheme employed here will have a significant effect on both UX and security of
your crypto wallet. Just about every security scheme offers two key features to
protect an account from unwanted access:

1.  Some sort of log-in method.

2.  Some sort of recovery method.

Regardless of whether you are using a web wallet, a desktop wallet, a mobile
wallet or a hardware wallet, the way in which you access and protect your
private keys will likely fall into one of three security scheme categories. We
will examine a few examples from each of these account setup security schemes.
To illustrate each scheme, the following crypto wallets will be examined:

**Scheme 1: Username and password + 2-step verification**

- Coinbase (web hosted)

- Portis (mobile): Email & password

**Scheme 2: Password + recovery phrase**

- Trust Wallet (mobile)

- Coinomi (desktop)

- MetaMask (web)

**Scheme 3: Other novel approaches**

- Argent (mobile): Password + social recovery with “Guardians”

Note: For completeness, we are showing all account setup screens including those
that display private recovery phrases. This will provide any reader with
sufficient information to control the displayed account. These are throwaway
accounts with no assets stored within them. Do not store any of your own assets
within them.

## Scheme 1: Username and password + 2-step verification

This scheme is hugely popular across the wider internet. It is a very familiar
scheme for the average person and has resulted in relatively wide adoption of
Coinbase, making it the preferred crypto wallet for non-technical users. As the
market leader in the United States, Coinbase has also earned the subjective
value that comes with institutional trust. While institutional trust may not add
security, it does make some people feel better when adopting new technologies.
In fact, the whole banking industry is based on the idea of “Trust as a
Service.”

This scheme does carry some significant security holes:

- Anytime a password can be reset via email, you are substantially expanding
  your attack surface.

- Recovery via email ties your identity to your crypto assets, making the
  probability & ultimate success of social engineering attacks far more likely.

- 2-step verification via text is proven to be an unreliable security scheme and
  should be avoided entirely. Instead, consider 2-step verification via some
  authenticator app.

- With hosted wallets like Coinbase, your private keys are secured by a
  third-party who may be unregulated.

- You may not have access to your private keys at all. (From the Coinbase
  website: “As Coinbase is a hosted wallet, it’s not feasible to provide the
  private keys to individual wallet addresses.”)

In short, you are not in total control. For some people, this is an acceptable
security tradeoff for the benefit of usability. However, if you are reading this
article, then you probably don’t fall into that category.

### Account Set-up: Coinbase, web wallet, 5 screens

![From the coinbase.com homepage select “Get Started,” fill in the required fields, accept the User Agreement, select “Create account”](/assets/blog/2019/0_IPcGACnQvOHHe5gM.png)

![Verify your email address](/assets/blog/2019/0_n2jryWAe-Y2t8I9Y.png)

![Set up two-step verification](/assets/blog/2019/0_pqiIN1S3wFp1RODn.png)

![Enter authentication code](/assets/blog/2019/0_ZEQ6826OiENPiEVm.png)

![Verify your identity (depending on state of residence)](/assets/blog/2019/0_8OX0oMERMmibn691.png)

### Account Set-up: Portis, web wallet, 1 screen

![From the portis.io homepage, select “Get Started.” Fill in email and password to Register your account](/assets/blog/2019/0_oaWAHDG2AkIHNH-F.png)

## Scheme 2: Password + recovery phrase

This scheme is the most prevalent across the leading crypto native wallet
providers. It uses cryptography specs BIP32 and BIP39, which are generally
regarded as the standard for key pair derivation among the blockchain community.

Recovery here is not associated with your e-mail or identity, but rather a seed
phrase. This is a cryptographically assigned sequence of 12 or 24 words (BIP39)
that is a more human-friendly version of your master key (BIP32). The output of
BIP32 is effectively a randomly generated string of characters and numbers. This
master key can be used to quickly create additional key pairs as well as to
restore your crypto wallet on a separate device.

The seed phrase is the single point of failure/recovery for your crypto wallet
and should only ever be known by you. A best practice is to store this highly
confidential seed phrase in a very secure place that only you can access.
Recovery at this point is your sole responsibility.

### Account Set-up: Trust Wallet, mobile wallet, 5 screens

![Download the Trust Wallet app, select “Create a new wallet”](/assets/blog/2019/0_YulQYZXmD8iDgVjd.png)

![Accept responsibility for securing your recovery phrase](/assets/blog/2019/0_kZbr473spQ1dUAah.png)

![Privately record and secure the 12 recovery words](/assets/blog/2019/0_SMGKSBBOZC7of437.png)

![Verify recovery phrase](/assets/blog/2019/0_Arln2nP74LHl7zC5.png)

![Wallet created confirmation screen. Select “Done”](/assets/blog/2019/0_Lmf4ttNh6zRSxHG6.png)

### Account Set-up: Coinomi, desktop wallet, 6 screens

![Download the desktop app from coinomi.com, select “Create new wallet”](/assets/blog/2019/0_cs5YtPjvBDBAdMb_.png)

![Privately record and secure the 24 recovery words](/assets/blog/2019/0_QC3N4OpiMjMRLbuJ.png)

![Verify recovery phrase](/assets/blog/2019/0_B4KLnCV3v7mTx0nf.png)

![Set a password for regular wallet access](/assets/blog/2019/0_mox1VNpdTXQEaLfp.png)

![Select coins to use with the wallet](/assets/blog/2019/0_UvUg8sslGP_x7KV6.png)

![Accept terms of service](/assets/blog/2019/0_MmlkzARTyqWwkrqj.png)

### Account Set-up: MetaMask, web wallet, 8 screens

![Download the Chrome extension from metamask.io](/assets/blog/2019/0_HnpiK0ETEKeIc6ex.png)

![Accept the extension permissions](/assets/blog/2019/0_zn0iS1YDSjkM8tSe.png)

![Select “Get Started”](/assets/blog/2019/0_pvdhSvCBXd4DZrhd.png)

![Select “Create a Wallet”](/assets/blog/2019/0_MNiORckB4a4GoQvL.png)

![Create a password, accept the Terms of Use](/assets/blog/2019/0_eDwLkrAIgMQJZkFk.png)

![Privately record and secure the 12 recovery words](/assets/blog/2019/0_HvjXGuOIOcJdoM4A.png)

![Verify recovery phrase](/assets/blog/2019/0_-52J8LurdL_5VaGm.png)

![Wallet created confirmation screen. Select “All Done”](/assets/blog/2019/0_drpdH4lj2Lx53yel.png)

## Scheme 3: Other novel approaches

**Social recovery**: This is an interesting approach wherein the wallet owner
can designate known and trusted individuals in their real-world network to
trigger a recovery. This is similar to a multi-signature contract flow in which
some designated number of parties (eg. 2 out of 3, or all) must each perform an
operation (ie. authorize recovery) in order to activate the terms of the
contract (ie. trigger wallet recovery).

### Account Set-up: Argent, mobile wallet, 18 screens

![Download the Argent app, scroll through the marketing screens](/assets/blog/2019/0_lcwwuPtbZU9p6Tsn.png)

![Select “Create new wallet”](/assets/blog/2019/0_XOfttt-CuamymCr4.png)

![Create a unique Ethereum name](/assets/blog/2019/0_-a5IZoRoPqhQlTRb.png)

![Submit phone number](/assets/blog/2019/0_Qnz2BRTm2v_a0aok.png)

![Enter authentication code](/assets/blog/2019/0_CcL36ceTHiUbbXxp.png)

![Submit email address](/assets/blog/2019/0_ItDbnfEwDe2kExRZ.png)

![Verify your email address](/assets/blog/2019/0_xSmwu_djEQ8ZQdbB.png)

![Registration completion screen. Select “Open Argent”](/assets/blog/2019/0_ninJLNd4Tiw2Vp4N.png)

![Waitlist notification](/assets/blog/2019/0_xeegfUIJis0iMYrB.png)

![Notification that your wallet is ready to use](/assets/blog/2019/1_IrroP0tY715BTcfxlBHKVg.webp)

![Choose a passcode](/assets/blog/2019/0_Vbp6bxI74DcBuAKN.png)

![Confirm passcode](/assets/blog/2019/0_11tRCXcgZ9dUDAN2.png)

![Decide whether to use face recognition](/assets/blog/2019/0_mLACVDO1KzwjF057.png)

![Enable push notifications](/assets/blog/2019/0_4kOd0ZfVhHBY1nO-.png)

![Navigate to the Security tab to add Guardians as recovery method](/assets/blog/2019/0_GOovpw5aC3SyTabq.png)

![Scroll through the Guardian informational screens](/assets/blog/2019/0_YCuBNw20kNMygyYR.png)

![Select Guardian recovery method (3 options)](/assets/blog/2019/0_cSZ73VOqgFK9QM7u.png)

![If “Friends & family,” then choose your desired Argent member as Guardian](/assets/blog/2019/0_wie5ziJqEsGuotaq.png)

**Time-based recovery**: In this approach, a wallet owner would be able to
specify that if no transactions are made for a period of time (e.g. one year),
then another designated account can trigger a command and recover the wallet.

## USER JOURNEY 2: HOME SCREEN FAMILIARITY

After completing the one-time process of Account setup, users will land on some
home screen interface. This home screen will be the main reference point in your
crypto wallet life. All other user journeys will originate from this screen.
Effective home screens feel like an anchor point from which the user can
intuitively navigate to anywhere within their wallet. The home screen view is
also the easiest way to compare the visual identity systems of all crypto
wallets. Let’s glance through the home screens for all 18 crypto wallets covered
in this guide. Pay attention to what kinds of information frequently appear as
well as the design styles that feel most comfortable to you.

### Web Wallets

![Home Screen: Coinbase, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_yqArCGrAWIQ0DyFc.png)

![Home Screen: Portis, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_ffzCcfStsozgc_Oa.png)

![Home Screen: BitGo, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_9rZfT2y6PKCK8rKV.png)

![Home Screen: MetaMask, Ethereum only](/assets/blog/2019/0_lIDFTuCNQvn4F2HP.png)

![Home Screen: MyEtherWallet, Ethereum only](/assets/blog/2019/0_SD72x4eQt9ky3tkA.png)

![Home Screen: Dapper, Ethereum only](/assets/blog/2019/0_8mfRwrPt7A54z2BX.png)

![Home Screen: Bitski, Ethereum only](/assets/blog/2019/0_i3B2M_Kjneaf_6F1.png)

### Desktop Wallets

![Home Screen: Coinomi, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_9jfnbOQXHXesw3O-.png)

![Home Screen: Exodus, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_rSEFDNDwhh_vyUkI.png)

![Home Screen: Jaxx, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_6Jt3bWLWl0IoDVaq.png)

![Home Screen: Electrum, Bitcoin only](/assets/blog/2019/0_GR1lpYNTaDD4Leo1.png)

### Mobile Wallets

![Home Screen: Trust Wallet, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_IE50coQNoo_m7inN.png)

![Home Screen: Coinbase Wallet, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_Ali4T3Dc5nq2QhTL.png)

![Home Screen: Enjin, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_zotI0mFV4PdLhI6M.png)

![Home Screen: Argent, Ethereum only](/assets/blog/2019/0_KrCmGKtLug2vNyYv.png)

![Home Screen: Mycelium, Bitcoin only](/assets/blog/2019/0_gwClskXdvrQ_N4zS.png)

![Home Screen: Spot, Bitcoin only](/assets/blog/2019/0_CKrCfjqsoZRBhm0-.png)

### Hardware Wallet

![Home Screen: Ledger Live with Nano S, multi-currency](/assets/blog/2019/0_BForfPp9TbPDxdnR.png)

## USER JOURNEY 3: RECEIVE FUNDS

In order to receive cryptocurrency, all you need to know is the public key of
the receiving wallet. Once this key is known, it must be shared with the sender,
and that person will complete the process of sending funds (see User Journey 4).
The receiver does not need to do anything else. As long as the sender properly
sends funds, the receiving account will automatically accept the transfer. As a
result of these limited requirements, the user interface (UI) for receiving
crypto is pretty uniform.

The most minimal approach is to display just the public key in text form so that
it can be copied and shared.

### Receive Funds: MyEtherWallet, web wallet, 1 screen

![From the main “My Wallets” tab select the “Copy it” button](/assets/blog/2019/0_bldqR5ZNgyClxl7T.png)

The large majority of crypto wallets go a little bit further to also provide a
QR code.

### Receive Funds: Bitski, web wallet, 2 screens

![From the main screen select the “Receive” button](/assets/blog/2019/0_a2GXhuuyGePhsQsu.png)

![Select “Copy Address” or use QR code](/assets/blog/2019/0_8-93me9XNN2xACff.png)

### Receive Funds: Jaxx, desktop wallet, 3 screens

![From the main screen select the desired cryptocurrency](/assets/blog/2019/0_bMv35o_68z2Co70B.png)

![Select “Receive” button](/assets/blog/2019/0_AxOgqnqwCgPxIiL3.png)

![Select “Copy Address” or use the QR code](/assets/blog/2019/0_JgOk2qIDlMTfeD59.png)

### Receive Funds: Spot, mobile wallet, 2 screens

![From the main screen select the down-arrow button near the upper-right corner](/assets/blog/2019/0_OH1P73x6r_BsyS9o.png)

![Select “Copy my address,” “Share my address,” or use the QR code](/assets/blog/2019/0_ME29iaEarM_9U7oX.png)

Other crypto wallets go even further and provide an alternate option to buy
crypto with your credit card via some exchange.

### Receive Funds: MetaMask, web wallet, 2 screens

![From the main screen select the “Deposit” button](/assets/blog/2019/0_oygAHmd2_GYFRwcT.png)

![Select a 3rd party site to buy crypto](/assets/blog/2019/0_tuO4DpBsD7HgK3Fk.png)

### Receive Funds: Dapper, web wallet, 2 screens

![From the main screen select the “Get ETH!” button](/assets/blog/2019/0_MSQ7RxcX7raNjd_i.png)

![Select a 3rd party site to buy crypto](/assets/blog/2019/0_sw7DnxwSxo4UiEth.png)

Finally, for those with heightened security preferences, the Ledger Live desktop
app paired with the Ledger Nano hardware wallet can provide greater peace of
mind.

### Receive Funds: Ledger Live with Nano S, 6 screens

![From the main screen select the “Receive” button](/assets/blog/2019/0_UvwF7V8UJjHTsq4k.png)

![Select an available cryptocurrency account](/assets/blog/2019/0_W0Y3ZsSo2NOInBop.png)

![Connect and unlock your Ledger Nano hardware wallet, navigate to the designated app](/assets/blog/2019/0_oyx7abnYf9qsNcZv.png)

![Acknowledge verification procedure](/assets/blog/2019/0_s73yX1OhKcVmFs71.png)

![Verify that the public key displayed on the desktop wallet matches the public key displayed on the hardware wallet](/assets/blog/2019/0_YLsaHuNDwwoY6Qv8.png)

![If the hardware wallet is disconnected at any point, the process must be restarted](/assets/blog/2019/0_mFUN5M9JegArt2sy.png)

This added step of verifying synchronicity between displayed addresses is a
countermeasure against attack vectors such as a “man-in-the-middle” attack. This
occurs when an attacker secretly relays and possibly alters the communications
between two parties. This means that the displayed addresses on your computer
screen could be manipulated without your knowledge. Given the current state of
computer security, it is difficult to be certain that your computer is not
compromised. A best practice for verifying that a transaction is properly
received by the intended recipient is to always send a small “test” amount
first.

## USER JOURNEY 4: SEND FUNDS (SIGN A TRANSACTION)

While it is relatively easy to receive funds into a crypto wallet, sending funds
introduces many more possible variables for control. And this is a good thing.
When it comes to accessing and moving your valuable assets, you want to feel
secure and in control. Similar to the security schemes discussed in the Account
Set-up user journey, we now need to consider the tradeoffs between the opposing
forces of usability and control. Let’s look at a variety of methods for sending
funds, organized from beginner to advanced.

The simplest interface requires just two inputs: the recipient’s address and the
amount to send. This is a similar approach to most other non-crypto peer-to-peer
wallets such as Venmo.

### Send Funds: Exodus, desktop wallet, 4 screens

![From the “Wallet” tab, select the desired cryptocurrency, select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_rE0ajd1GVom4YAtY.png)

![Enter the recipient’s address, the amount to send and an optional message. Select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_MBB99nN_g-Uyou_k.png)

![Confirm transaction details, select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_kJVMoIS7LK5ScOzD.png)

![Success screen. Select “OK”](/assets/blog/2019/0_2mM0hcHNxmNjPWEj.png)

### Send Funds: Coinbase Wallet, mobile wallet, 5 screens

![From the main screen, select the desired cryptocurrency and select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_I5AhOx1RbnFB1Fzs.png)

![Enter the amount to send and select “Next”](/assets/blog/2019/0_lvVlZDJXvGhzhzWS.png)

![Enter the recipient’s address, confirm the transaction details and select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_7D6DzdM1B1Ja14ot.png)

![Authorize the transaction with a passcode or Face ID](/assets/blog/2019/0_4khICuo6QswEHm_s.png)

![View the transaction result and status](/assets/blog/2019/0_IAYNqZb4VGaNxrBp.png)

Introducing a little more control, we now have a few configurable settings such
as gas fee or transaction priority.

### Send Funds: MetaMask, web wallet, 4 screens

![From the main screen select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_7qWSkARjzs908fl3.png)

![Enter the recipient’s address, the amount to send and choose transaction fee preference. Select “Next”](/assets/blog/2019/0_xGfFNgt0co0ZZOML.png)

![Confirm transaction details, select “Confirm”](/assets/blog/2019/0_ri89giBssjeQszEj.png)

![Return to the main screen and view recent transaction status](/assets/blog/2019/0_FTsWEWXz-E1T4AK1.png)

### Send Funds: BitGo, web wallet, 6 screens

![Select the desired cryptocurrency wallet](/assets/blog/2019/0_o7IHHB7B0EVaYIXL.png)

![Select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_4WA7si21KKBVzbKE.png)

![Enter the recipient’s address, the amount to send and choose transaction priority. Select “Send”](/assets/blog/2019/0_Jw3gn2B2oxb8CxR-.png)

![Confirm transaction details. Select “Send Funds”](/assets/blog/2019/0_0CedXn0Hmv5jWXHr.png)

![Authenticate the transaction with your wallet password and two-step verification code. Select “Authenticate”](/assets/blog/2019/0_EUiLBg6yfBYwtNxa.png)

![Return to the wallet screen and view transaction history](/assets/blog/2019/0_CP2WfKFVofTfLrp0.png)

For those seeking total control when signing transactions, there are a few open
source crypto wallets that are built by developers for developers. With these
wallets, you can preview and configure just about anything such as data
inputs/outputs, transaction ID, size, time to life and more.

### Send Funds: MyEtherWallet, web wallet, 5 screens

![From the main screen, toggle to the “Send Ether & Tokens” tab](/assets/blog/2019/0_JkkDZ4GO9BmzjXB1.png)

![Enter the recipient’s address, the amount to send and the gas limit. Select “Generate Transaction”](/assets/blog/2019/0_Yv-Objx87AB-cG6i.png)

![View Raw and Signed Transaction fields. Select “Send Transaction”](/assets/blog/2019/0_Ng-txHu8swRqIXMf.png)

![Confirm transaction details. Select “Yes, I am sure! Make transaction.”](/assets/blog/2019/0_JyNJoy6oHp0tqN0Y.png)

![View transaction status banner in footer](/assets/blog/2019/0_GMZgN9x6giADGGj5.png)

### Send Funds: Electrum, desktop wallet, 5 screens

![From the main screen, toggle to the “Send” tab](/assets/blog/2019/0_KpCZFwBnHCLCDdDC.png)

![Enter the recipient’s address, the amount to send and choose transaction fee preferences](/assets/blog/2019/0_YjP3jf789eDfldy8.png)

![Select “Preview” to display transaction details before signing](/assets/blog/2019/0_SvxHhOxYCfsXB5rh.png)

![Select “Send,” enter password, select “OK”](/assets/blog/2019/0_l7qsizHZR8d8WJCw.png)

![Success screen](/assets/blog/2019/0_pcwZVNBmOKTBKDvR.png)

Remember, with more control comes more responsibility. Be mindful of your own
experience level and needs when deciding which crypto wallet to use for sending
funds.

## USER JOURNEY 5: VIEW WALLET ACTIVITY

Upon sending funds, people want to track the status of their transaction as well
as view relevant details related to it. Since the blockchain is an open and
decentralized ledger, you might see a few different types of information than
you would see in a typical bank statement. In addition to basic details such as
date, recipient, and value of the transaction, we may also see gas fee or
confirmation depth. Of course, some details are more useful than others, and
most crypto wallet providers have organized these details into a hierarchy.

Most crypto wallets show account history with three levels of detail:

1.  The first level shows account history in a table view with basic transaction
    details.

2.  The second level expands upon a selected transaction to show greater detail.

3.  The third level often links the user to a block explorer tool.

As the name implies, block explorers allow anyone to explore or audit all the
public data recorded in every block of the entire blockchain. You can see the
transaction details or the balance of any account, so long as you know the
transaction ID or the account’s public key. For example,
[here](https://www.blockchain.com/btc/tx/f4184fc596403b9d638783cf57adfe4c75c605f6356fbc91338530e9831e9e16)
is the first bitcoin transaction and
[here](https://etherscan.io/address/0xab5801a7d398351b8be11c439e05c5b3259aec9b)
is the public key for Vitalik Buterin’s Ethereum account.

Here are a few different ways in which some crypto wallets have designed the
user experience for viewing wallet activity.

### View Activity: MetaMask, web wallet, 3 screens

![Account history shown in table view with basic transaction details](/assets/blog/2019/0_4_oOaKUp0-yb_hPS.png)

![Expand a transaction to view greater detail; see gas used and participant addresses](/assets/blog/2019/0_MIkQv67Iugs4yjAW.png)

![Link to block explorer Etherscan for complete detail view](/assets/blog/2019/0_yfOPifWUiXL2aQl1.png)

### View Activity: BitGo, web wallet, 3 screens

![Wallet history shown in table view with basic transaction details](/assets/blog/2019/0_E1BRWtnA_c75PRHf.png)

![Expand a transaction to view greater detail; see transaction ID & progress states](/assets/blog/2019/0_CR1EnYIwC_V-k_wd.png)

![Link to block explorer SmartBit for complete detail view](/assets/blog/2019/0_4on1vXiCZELCosOm.png)

### View Activity: Coinomi, mobile wallet, 3 screens

![Account history shown in table view with basic transaction details](/assets/blog/2019/0_xq-cGG13hkrL_uFd.png)

![Expand a transaction to view greater detail; see number of confirmations & transaction ID](/assets/blog/2019/0_vL0GyoAD4i46Jueb.png)

![Link to block explorer Etherscan for complete detail view](/assets/blog/2019/0_mIwXOJeY75ydw8qr.png)

### View Activity: Jaxx, desktop wallet, 4 screens

![Account history shown in table view with basic transaction details](/assets/blog/2019/0_sAdX122fcyPBSa4L.png)

![Expand a transaction to view greater detail; see value now & transaction status](/assets/blog/2019/0_-9BHvDKSlpW2JQQj.png)

![Select “View transaction details” to view greater detail](/assets/blog/2019/0_u2l5QFsH2qt6-FQ5.png)

![Select the block number to view all other transactions included in the same block](/assets/blog/2019/0_Y2uIQ1Qu75UyZSK1.png)

### View Activity: Electrum, desktop wallet, 2 screens

![Wallet history shown in table view with basic transaction details](/assets/blog/2019/0_uf8MZcGOAFVeE6pY.png)

![Double-click a transaction to view greater detail; see inputs, outputs, size & lock time](/assets/blog/2019/0_HhvehIiJYRI3gNwN.png)

## USER JOURNEY 6: CONFIGURE SETTINGS

The experience of transacting on the blockchain may feel complicated and
unfamiliar. Many crypto wallet providers have taken extra steps to offer
settings that can be configured to accommodate the varied preferences of their
diverse user base. Here are a few of the interesting settings that you might
want to configure in your crypto wallet.

### Settings: Enjin, mobile wallet

![Many wallets enable localization with currency & language selection, as well as the ability to change passwords and view your recovery phrase](/assets/blog/2019/0_p_i9cgQsO4lC0RDV.png)

### Settings: Exodus, desktop wallet

![Change the interface display theme with color options](/assets/blog/2019/0_xzHzmUa_EKzcnR6o.png)

![Connect your software wallet to a hardware wallet](/assets/blog/2019/0__ZD5nFhDKnrp5qlr.png)

### Settings: Ledger, hardware wallet

![Select a preferred rate provider and designate wallet auto-lock options](/assets/blog/2019/0_k--AhPq2WOo8g2Ni.png)

### Settings: Coinbase, web wallet

![Most crypto wallets that require email addresses also support 2-step verification](/assets/blog/2019/0_JGbivz4XKrPXPp5o.png)

### Settings: BitGo, web wallet

![Specify time-boxed spending limits and manage a list of approved recipients with a whitelist of addresses](/assets/blog/2019/0_mYUYe-pEG9T1a0n9.png)

### Settings: Electrum, desktop wallet

![Generate a new public key address for every transaction](/assets/blog/2019/0_rFJbenOflMsW0Nqb.png)

![Specify a server from which to pull data such as transaction history](/assets/blog/2019/0_EIzflSEWgUPKzgsW.png)

### Settings: MetaMask, web wallet

![Connect to your own custom network](/assets/blog/2019/0_lHXHX0IGRqtX3o5G.png)

## THE CRYPTO WALLET FEATURE MATRIX

Bringing it all together, we have a comprehensive feature matrix to easily
compare all 18 crypto wallets.

![](/assets/blog/2019/0_nI3alkjdJPljhUWV.png)

![](/assets/blog/2019/0_ODnUYgH5Kr5hIEUu.png)

![](/assets/blog/2019/0_O003X4zKboSWVAo6.png)

- Note: Some features may be listed as unavailable if they are hard to find or
  access.

View a high-resolution version of the complete feature matrix comparing all
crypto wallets [here](https://photos.app.goo.gl/QGDJdA3YWv9GSqaN8).

## CONCLUSION

How people custody their assets in the future will continue to evolve. The
creativity in thinking, style, and functionality of these crypto wallets
demonstrate how established conventions can be challenged. When it comes to your
own assets, do you want more or less control? More or less security? More or
less convenience? In this world of choices and tradeoffs, no one will know which
solution matches your preferences better than you. Good luck, and may this guide
be your compass in navigating the crypto wallet landscape.
