---
title: Kadena Telegram AMA with Stuart Popejoy, Feb 5 2021 Transcript
description:
  A Transcript of the Telegram Ask-Me_Anything with Stuart Popejoy, Feb 5 2021
menu: Kadena Telegram AMA, Feb 5 2021
label: Kadena Telegram AMA, Feb 5 2021
order: 1
publishDate: 2021-02-05
layout: blog
---

## Opening remarks:

**STUART:** Hi everyone! I’m Stuart, I’m a co-founder of Kadena along with Will
Martino! To kick things off, I want to point people at our re-launched team
page: https://www.kadena.io/team

Also, I want to formally introduce Francesco (_@fmelp_) and Jeffrey
(_@SpaceJeff_) as power-members of the team on Telegram!

## Pre-submitted Questions and Answers

### Kadenaswap

**Slava: What is the shortest period between Bountyswap and full launch of
Kadenaswap you anticipate, assuming no bugs found?**

**STUART:** Great question! We’re certainly hoping Bountyswap is as quick as
possible, but on the other hand, it’s the best time to find bugs, and hopefully
the incentive will really get folks to poke around, make direct smart contract
calls, all the things. But launching Kadenaswap is more than just the exchange
itself. The assets on Kadenaswap are as important as functioning code.

So while Bountyswap is running, you’re going to see a lot of activity in the
bridges and wrapping space. We’re working on a major announcement in that area
soon. We want Kadenaswap to knock it out of the park, so it will be important
that there be value to work with at launch. So that will ultimately drive when
it launches.

### Kadenaswap Liquidity

**Coinmetro_man: What are the plans to incentivize people to provide liquidity
to make Kadenaswap a success?**

**STUART:** Well, for one, there’s the built-in incentives for AMMs, which is
making money on fees. This model works, although we’re always open for
suggestions for improving it. I think there’s another q about this later.

However, we do want there to be a KDAX token to provide additional incentives.
We will be announcing shortly the structure for economic development mentioned
above, with a decentralized governance, and that will be the vehicle for
launching KDAX. Once that is in place, we can start providing additional
incentives. This will actually be critical for powering wrapping and multi-chain
liquidity, so we’re working very hard on this right now.

**Markus: What are the chances that the liquidity provider fees will be reduced
if there is more volume on Kadenaswap?**

**STUART:** The fees question is interesting, as the Uniswap model doesn’t work
perfectly with low liquidity, or for non-volatile things like stablecoins. Curve
and Balancer have innovated here.

However, a lot of the economic puzzle of DEXes like Kadenaswap is all the
front-running and oracle-based activity. Incentives don’t really do anything to
help with this.

I think suggestions like yours (lower fees for more liquid pairs) could make
sense. I guess I want to say that each DEX has it’s own dynamics, and the
systems are fairly chaotic. So the approach is to iterate from simple and proven
to subtle. But this is an area where we are VERY open to suggestions.

### Partnerships and Wallets

**Jason Rogers: What is the current status of the Polkadot integration?**

**STUART:** The current status is we’re working on the Pact Core specification
to allow native Pact to execute as a first-class smart contract language on
Polkadot, similar to how Kadenamint allows Pact to be a native component in the
Cosmos ecosystem. There are some research issues still to be resolved, which is
where [@emilypi](https://twitter.com/emilypi) comes in 🙂.

As for KadenaDOT/parachains, that’s part of the above-mentioned tech strategy;
we are also in conversation with a well-known project on Kusama to build a
bridge. So the answer is, we’re going to pursue ALL of the above, but it may
turn out that the best for time-to-market will be bridging DOT/Kusama assets
into the Kadenaswap ecosystem as the first step (as well as wrapping KDA onto
Polkadot/Kusama).

**[Floppie](https://twitter.com/FloppieD): Is Zelcore a necessity to Kadenaswap
or are other options coming as well?**

**STUART:** We like Zelcore because they are great and agile technologists who
are really passionate about user experience, so working with them on a seamless
DEX experience has been really exciting.

But it’s definitely not the only solution planned. Chainweaver is available
today and it offers a very nice experience on OSX and Linux.

Going forward, we’re looking to support WalletConnect which would bring more
wallets into the picture, like Argent and RainbowWallet.

The larger picture is of course the full spectrum: hardware wallets, browser
plugins, a great mobile experience. We’re studying these because we can’t commit
to all of them at once. But we’re making our tech strategy as we speak.

### 2021 Objectives

**BlueBird2023: [I] can’t wait for Kadenaswap, but what are your next plans
after Kadenaswap? Any big plans or are you hoping devs jump on board and build
for themselves?**

**STUART:** Yes to both! Kadenaswap itself has a long roadmap which we’ll be
sharing more about later, which include multi-chain incentives, interaction with
KDAX, etc.

You saw our
[NFT announcement](https://twitter.com/kadena_io/status/1356717907447865362) I
hope, so there is where we’re looking to aggressively partner and innovate, so
that’s both for Kadena and for devs. But we’ll also be launching new initiatives
surrounding economic development — think Consensys for Ethereum, but powered by
a DAO.

**Crypto Maverick: While we know the q1 roadmap, what are the main goals for
2021?**

**STUART:**

1. Make KDA a top 100 protocol.

2. Bring 5 major applications onto the Kadena platform.

3. Launch a robust, DAO-backed development organization.

4. Increase listings on top-tier exchanges.

5. Make Kadenaswap the ultimate multi-protocol DEX.

---

### Community Q&A

**Steven Octoast: Does the team have plans to build any defi products/services
on Kadena or do you plan to leave all of that to third party and community? Are
you in talks with any of those [lending platforms] on ETH to set up on Kadena?**

**STUART:** It’s both, and the DAO will factor heavily into this. We will leg in
wherever we can aggressively, but partners and the community are critical.
Developers are everything, but developers come when they see that they can make
an impact. We’re showing that you can do that.

Now is the time to get creative and help us by saying what development is most
critical, like lending platform, etc. But soon, you’ll be able to do more than
just comment, but actually get involved in governance.

**Steven Octoast: Ok. I see that we really need to get developers to first of
all become exposed to Kadena existence in the first place, but then also be
lured to build on Kadena. Currently there’s the grant program, but I feel it’s
not known about, can we get this blasted all over dev communities so we can get
it some more exposure? I don’t know how to find them, but maybe you do.**

**JEFFREY:** Yes, so we’re planning on releasing an Ambassadors Program that
will incentivize people who promote Kadena’s brand, whether it’s creating
content, moderating our social channels, or creating community events in
community channels. Once we drive more community awareness, we’ll naturally get
more developers interested in building on our platform. We’ll announce more
details soon!

**Roger: Oh, there is a grants program. How is it governed?**

**STUART:** The [developer grants](https://kadena.io/developers) is centralized
behind Kadena. But we’re going to help launch a larger organization soon!

**Steven Octoast: How does kswap differ to Thorchain DEX?**

**STUART:** I’ve studied Thorchain a little, but they seem very focused on their
PoS security model. I know their DEX tries to do something about impermanent
loss, but it seems to not be very effective (quoting them here, correct me if
I’m wrong).

For now, we’re most like Uniswap, and the first big innovation will be
multi-venue initiatives.

**Steven Octoast: Can you elaborate more on what multi-venue initiatives are?**

**STUART:** See the
[Kadenaswap article](https://medium.com/kadena-io/introducing-kadenaswap-bountyswap-live-beta-ecde4cf014dc),
I’ll quote from it:

> An initial design simply incentivizes AMMs to lock up liquidity in a pair for
> some period of time, let’s say a week. An AMM can then prove to the same pair
> on Chain 2 that they are providing equal liquidity on Chain 3 for that same
> week and receive higher gains accordingly, through either yield incentives, or
> through a fee structure that rewards cross-chain provisioning higher than
> single-chain.
>
> This allows pairs to scale independently: if one pair isn’t overloaded on a
> single chain, it can enjoy an unfragmented market. Meanwhile, a hard-hit pair
> can scale to as many chains as demand requires, and market makers will be
> rewarded for splitting up their positions to service each venue.
>
> Finally, insofar as pairs are truly isolated, they can simply exist in
> separate venues. For instance if some altcoin is really only paired with
> stablecoins, they can all hang out in a single venue, even though other pools
> with those stablecoins and other coins are scaled over multiple venues.

**David: I know the USCF was pushed back on the roadmap, is it still in the
books?**

**STUART:** USCF is in the books but the timeline is suspended while they
continue to navigate the space to make their unique concept about crypto assets
a reality. We’re hoping that in Q2/Q3 we’ll see some movement.

**A F: What are your goals for the future of KDA mining? Can you give any
updates on where things stand with IbeLink or other companies that you are
talking with?**

**DOUG:** iBeLink has told us that they are working on a second-generation ASIC
miner for Kadena. Last I heard the preliminary estimate was that this new miner
would mine at around 11 TH/s, but I don’t think we’ve gotten definitive numbers
there. I believe they are targeting to ship in March. Also, we have talked to
other ASIC manufacturers that reached out to us to discuss making other miners.
Of course we can’t discuss details of those conversations. On the whole we’re
very excited to have an ASIC securing the network less than a year after launch
and about the interest we’ve seen from more manufacturers.

**Robert: How is the relationship with JP Morgan. Is it likely that they will
experiment with using Kadena in the future?**

**STUART:** It’s good. We’re really impressed with what Christine Moy has
achieved with Link and we stay in constant touch. We see our role as “making
public safe for industry”, and by safe I mean scalable. Public cryptocurrency
has HUGE value to the corporate treasury space, but it’s going to take careful
footwork to get there.

**John Guevara: Will there be opportunities to provide KDA liquidity for APR
[interest]?**

**STUART:** That will be under the initiatives we were talking about with KDAX,
lending platform, etc. We’re working very hard on this and will have some
exciting announcements soon.

David: What kind of marketing plans are in the works for Kadena besides
ambassador program?

STUART: We continue to be determined to drive Kadena to become the leading
platform in the coming decade, so marketing is always a focus. We are currently
refocusing marketing on community and direct efforts as we feel those are more
appropriate to the maturity of the product right this second. Last year we were
all about brand, and we laid a strong foundation for our current laser-focus on
interop, defi, and value. We want all marketing to come organically from that.

---

That concludes our AMA. However, if you are interested in reading the post-AMA
discussions, feel free to join our Telegram and view the discussion starting
[here](https://t.me/kadena_io/56651). To get announcements about Kadena’s
progress in creating the best multi-platform DEX, follow us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/kadena_io),
[Discord](https://t.co/VK1m2oyh2L?amp=1), and
[Telegram](https://t.me/kadena_io).
