---
title: Code of Conduct
description: Kadena Code of Conduct (Draft 2022)
menu: Code of Conduct
label: Code of Conduct
order: 3
layout: full
---

## Kadena Code of Conduct (Draft 2022)

Kadena is committed to fostering a friendly, safe, and inclusive environment for
all, regardless of sex, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation,
disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, race,
ethnicity, religion, nationality, age, or level of experience.

Kadena upholds these values within its own workplace and when it engages with
third parties. Community members are expected to abide by the same standards.

To that end, Kadena intends for our social channels to be a safe and welcoming
environment that fosters open dialogue and the free expression of ideas, free of
harassment, discrimination, and hostile conduct. Further, as extensions of
Kadena, community members represent Kadena's brand and image, thus sharing a
responsibility to create and maintain an environment for the benefit of all.

The intention of this document is to set our expectations of community members
and to promote consistency in behavior across all levels of the Kadena
community. This is a living document that will be used to guide all activities
and decision making.

### Expected Behavior

Avoid using overtly sexual aliases or other nicknames that might detract from a
friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all. Respect that people have
differences of opinion and that every design or implementation choice carries a
trade-off and numerous costs. There is seldom a right answer. Aim to provide
constructive criticism, and be able to recommend solid ideas. Inversely, we
encourage you to gratefully accept constructive criticism. Use welcoming and
inclusive language. We will exclude you from interaction if you insult, demean,
or harass anyone. Private harassment is unacceptable. No matter who you are, if
you feel you have been or are being harassed or made uncomfortable by a
community member, please contact our Moderation team immediately. Use members'
preferred pronouns.

### Unacceptable Behavior

Violence, threats of violence or violent language directed against another
person. Sexist, racist, homophobic, transphobic, ableist or otherwise
discriminatory jokes and language. Posting or displaying sexually explicit or
violent material. Posting or threatening to post other people's personally
identifying information ("doxing"). Personal insults, particularly those related
to gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, or disability. Inappropriate
photography or recording. Inappropriate physical contact. You should have
someone's consent before touching them. Unwelcome sexual attention. This
includes, sexualized comments or jokes; inappropriate touching, groping, and
unwelcomed sexual advances. Deliberate intimidation, stalking or following
(online or in person). Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above
behavior. Sustained disruption of community events, including talks and
presentations.

### Moderation

These are the policies for upholding our community's standards of conduct.

Remarks that violate the Kadena standards of conduct, including hateful,
hurtful, oppressive, or exclusionary remarks, are not allowed. (Cursing is
allowed, but never targeting another user, and never in a hateful manner.)
Remarks that moderators find inappropriate, whether listed in the code of
conduct or not, are also not allowed. Moderators will first respond to such
remarks with a warning. If the warning is unheeded, the user will be “kicked,”
i.e., kicked out of the communication channel to cool off. If the user comes
back and continues to make trouble, they will be banned, i.e., indefinitely
excluded. Moderators may choose at their discretion to un-ban the user if it was
a first offense and they offer the offended party a genuine apology. If a
moderator bans someone and you think it was unjustified, please take it up with
that moderator, or with a different moderator, in private. Complaints about bans
in-channel are not allowed. Moderators are held to a higher standard than other
community members. If a moderator creates an inappropriate situation, they
should expect less leeway than others.

In the Kadena community we strive to go the extra step to look out for each
other. Don't just aim to be technically unimpeachable, try to be your best self.
In particular, avoid flirting with offensive or sensitive issues, particularly
if they're off-topic; this all too often leads to unnecessary fights, hurt
feelings, and damaged trust; worse, it can drive people away from the community
entirely.

And if someone takes issue with something you said or did, resist the urge to be
defensive. Just stop doing what it was they complained about and apologize. Even
if you feel you were misinterpreted or unfairly accused, chances are good there
was something you could've communicated better — remember that it's your
responsibility to make your fellow community Members comfortable. Everyone wants
to get along and we are all here first and foremost because we want to talk
about cool technology. You will find that people will be eager to assume good
intent and forgive as long as you earn their trust.

### Scope

This Code of Conduct applies within all community spaces, and also applies when
an individual is officially representing Kadena in public spaces. This includes
(but is not limited to) the Discord server, IRL Kadena events, and collaborative
platforms utilized for Kadena projects like GitHub, Notion, Google Docs, and
Slack.

The Kadena Code of Conduct applies equally to all members of the community,
including staff.

### Attribution

This code of conduct document draws from the following projects: [Friends with
Benefits Code of Conduct][1], [Rust's Code of Conduct][2], [Stumptown
Syndicate's Code of Conduct][3], and [Python's Discord Code of Conduct][4].

[1]: https://github.com/friends-with-benefits/codeofconduct/blob/main/code.md
[2]: https://foundation.rust-lang.org/policies/code-of-conduct/
[3]: https://github.com/stumpsyn/policies/blob/master/citizen_code_of_conduct.md
[4]: https://www.pythondiscord.com/pages/code-of-conduct/
