---
title: What is it?
menu: Property Checking System
label: What is it?
order: 0
layout: full
---

    ## What is it?

Pact comes equipped with the ability for smart contract authors to express and
automatically check properties -- or, specifications -- of Pact programs.

The Pact property checking system is our response to the current environment of
chaos and uncertainty in the smart contract programming world. Instead of
requiring error-prone smart contract authors to try to imagine all possible ways
an attacker could exploit their smart contract, we can allow them to prove their
code can't be attacked, all without requiring a background in formal
verification.

For example, for an arbitrarily complex Pact program, we might want to
definitively prove that the program only allows "administrators" of the contract
to modify the database -- for all other users, we're guaranteed that the
contract's logic permits read-only access to the DB. We can prove such a
property _statically_, before any code is deployed to the blockchain.

Compared with conventional unit testing, wherein the behavior of a program is
validated for a single combination of inputs and the author hopes this case
generalizes to all inputs, the Pact property checking system _automatically_
checks the code against all possible inputs, and therefore all possible
execution paths.

Pact does this by allowing authors to specify _schema invariants_ about columns
in database tables, and to state and prove _properties_ about functions with
respect to the function's arguments and return values, keyset enforcement,
database access, and use of `enforce`.

For those familiar, the Pact's properties correspond to the notion of
"contracts" (note: this is different than "smart contracts"), and Pact's
invariants correspond to a simplified initial step towards refinement types,
from the world of formal verification.

For this initial release we don't yet support 100% of the Pact language, and the
implementation of the property checker _itself_ has not yet been formally
verified, but this is only the first step. We're excited to continue broadening
support for every possible Pact program, eventually prove correctness of the
property checker, and continually enable authors to express ever more
sophisticated properties about their smart contracts over time.
