---
title: Bringing the Internet to the Physical World with IoT Devices
description:
  The Internet of Things (IoT) has become a buzzword in the technology industry
  in recent years. It refers to the interconnected network of devices, sensors,
  and systems that are able to communicate with each other, collect and share
  data, and perform automated actions without human intervention. This
  technology has the potential to revolutionize many industries, from healthcare
  to transportation, and has already started to transform our daily lives in
  numerous ways.
menu: IoT Devices
label: IoT Devices
publishDate: 2023-06-08
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

# Bringing the Internet to the Physical World with IoT Devices

![](/assets/blog/1_-sZboC_fQJg1hXLc1uPAgQ.webp)

The Internet of Things (IoT) has become a buzzword in the technology industry in
recent years. It refers to the interconnected network of devices, sensors, and
systems that are able to communicate with each other, collect and share data,
and perform automated actions without human intervention. This technology has
the potential to revolutionize many industries, from healthcare to
transportation, and has already started to transform our daily lives in numerous
ways.

However, the complexity and novelty of IoT also presents significant challenges,
ranging from data privacy and security concerns to scalability and
interoperability issues. [Kadena ](http://kadena.io)has been working with
projects on developing decentralized blockchain-based solutions to address these
challenges to unlock the full potential of IoT.

In this article, we’ll be providing a simple overview of IoTs and how
[Crankk](https://crankk.io/), Kadena grantee, aims to create more secure and
decentralized IoT networks that can support a wide range of applications and use
cases.

### What is the Internet of Things and how does it work?

The Internet of Things (IoT) is a system of interconnected physical devices,
vehicles, home appliances, and other embedded technologies with sensors,
software, and connectivity to exchange data over the internet. These devices are
designed to collect and transmit data, enabling them to communicate with each
other and with humans, allowing for real-time tracking, monitoring, and control.

For example, imagine a smart thermostat that learns your habits, senses when
you’re not home, and adjusts the temperature accordingly to save energy. The
thermostat can also communicate with other IoT devices, such as smart blinds or
windows, to regulate the temperature more efficiently. It can also download
updates and new features, and alert you when it needs maintenance or repairs.
The smart thermostat can also connect with local weather forecasts and energy
prices to optimize your heating and cooling settings, potentially saving you
money on utility bills. Similarly, a smart irrigation system can sense when the
soil is dry and automatically water the plants, download new programs and
updates, and adjust its settings based on weather conditions to save water and
energy.

The impact of IoTs on various industries is significant, as it has
revolutionized the way businesses operate, leading to increased efficiency,
productivity, and profitability. Industries ranging from manufacturing and
agriculture to healthcare and transportation have all benefited from IoTs. As
the technology continues to evolve, new use cases and applications are likely to
emerge, further expanding the potential of IoT to transform various industries.

### What are some hurdles that IoTs face?

Despite the many advantages of IoT systems, they face several challenges that
are quite problematic. One such challenge is the use of centralized systems that
comes with a host of limitations. Connecting most IoT systems via cloud servers
creates a single point of failure that can impact the entire system, making it
vulnerable to security breaches and downtime. Additionally, routing all data
between devices through a third-party cloud server increases the risk of data
breaches, hacking, and unauthorized access.

Furthermore, managing an increasing number of IoT devices within a centralized
system can be challenging as infrastructure struggles to cope with the
increasing volume of data traffic and processing demands, leading to further
complications. The cost of maintaining a centralized IoT system can also be
significant, requiring large investments in hardware, software, and
infrastructure to ensure smooth operations, along with the ongoing cost of
maintenance.

### How can Decentralized Wireless infrastructure leveraging blockchain technology solve the problem?

Decentralized wireless infrastructure that leverages blockchain technology
provides one of the most real-world applications of blockchain technology. It
holds several benefits over centralized IoT systems, with some of these benefits
being:

- **Improving security and privacy of data transmission** by using distributed
  ledger technology to store and manage data in a transparent and tamper-proof
  manner. This means that there is no single point of failure or vulnerability
  in the system, and data is less susceptible to unauthorized access or
  modification.

- **Supporting a larger number of devices and transactions that can integrate
  with other systems and platform: **Smart contracts can be used to automate and
  streamline interactions between devices, reducing the need for human
  intervention and improving efficiency

- **New business models and revenue streams:** Decentralized wireless
  infrastructure can also enable new business models and revenue streams by
  facilitating secure peer-to-peer transactions and collaborations between
  devices. For example, devices can exchange data and value directly with each
  other without the need for intermediaries, enabling new applications such as
  micropayments, supply chain tracking, and distributed energy management.

- **Greater transparency and accountability: **By using distributed ledger
  technology, all transactions and interactions between devices are recorded in
  a transparent and auditable manner, enabling greater trust and accountability
  between stakeholders. This can be particularly important in industries such as
  healthcare, where data privacy and security are critical concerns.

### How is Crankk changing the decentralized wireless industry?

[Crankk](https://crankk.io/), a Kadena grantee, is a community-founded project
that has developed distributed wireless networks that provide coverage for IoT
devices such as smart meters and GPS trackers. Using Kadena’s low gas fees and
its secure and high throughput Proof-of-Work network, Crankk plans to build a
community network for LoRaWan coverage with better transparency and with checks
running through Pact.

Crankk’s ultimate goal is to overcome the capital-intensive nature of
large-scale infrastructure projects. By establishing a self-sustaining
ecosystem, participants are incentivized and rewarded for their work and
services, even before generating significant revenue. This approach allows for
the gradual growth of global coverage, eventually attracting customers who are
willing to pay for the network’s services. As presence and coverage expand,
Crankk can extend its services to a wider range of areas, connecting various
sensors and extracting valuable data for the benefit of customers. Within the
IoT domain, Crankk acknowledges the inclusion of intelligent home appliances and
home security. With a focus on home security, Crankk leverages the capabilities
of LoRa technology, which enables innovative security solutions based on
multiple sensors providing ambient, non-intrusive context, reducing reliance on
traditional video surveillance methods.

Overall, decentralized wireless infrastructure leveraging blockchain technology
has the potential to revolutionize the way we think about connectivity. With the
help of Crankk, Kadena is taking a significant step towards realizing this
vision and unlocking the full potential of the blockchain by building the tools
and infrastructure needed to create a decentralized internet that is open,
inclusive, and accessible to all.

If you enjoyed this article, make sure to follow Kadena for more educational
content!
