---
title:
  Kadena Grant Recipient Massive to Launch NoPool, a Decentralized Carbon
  Neutral Proof-of-Work Mining Pool
description:
  NoPool will provide incentives for proof-of-work miners to work towards carbon
  neutral emissions goals with support from BITMAIN in the form of computing
  power
menu: Kadena Grant Recipient Massive to Launch NoPool
label: Kadena Grant Recipient Massive to Launch NoPool
publishDate: 2023-02-21
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/1_dON9Q1uWxLdnxbVglCoGQw.webp)

## Kadena Grant Recipient Massive to Launch NoPool, a Decentralized Carbon Neutral Proof-of-Work Mining Pool

_NoPool will provide incentives for proof-of-work miners to work towards carbon
neutral emissions goals with support from BITMAIN in the form of computing
power_

**New York — February 21, 2023 —** Kadena, the only scalable layer 1
Proof-of-Work (PoW) blockchain, today announced that Kadena Grant recipient,
NoPool, has joined their ecosystem to address the reliance of PoW on centralized
mining pools and minimize the environmental impact of mining Kadena. With the
launch of NoPool, a Kadena-first, Stratum mining pool, Kadena miners will be
given unique incentives to work toward novel carbon neutral certifications with
support from the world’s leading manufacturer of cryptocurrency mining servers,
[BITMAIN](https://www.bitmain.com/news-detail/bitmain-launches-antminer-ka3-entering-the-kadena-ecosystem-with-a-leap-in-computational-performance-242?tagSlug=).

NoPool is a crypto mining pool that works to accomplish three main goals:

- **No centralization**

- **No emission footprint or conventional fees for low-emission miners**

- **No performance compromise**

The NoPool project was developed by Massive, a decentralized blockchain resource
provider that allows users to opt-in to being paid for idle computing power
after the project received a grant from Kadena Eco. NoPool represents a leap
forward for PoW mining, as it is the first mining pool to offer specific
incentives for miners to move towards more sustainable operations. As an
example, Mining operations that use at least 80% clean energy are eligible to be
certified as low-emission miners and get feeless pool service for one month per
quarter to start.

Francesco Melpignano, CEO of Kadena Eco, commented on the news, “The launch of
NoPool is a major development for the Kadena ecosystem, allowing us to minimize
the carbon footprint of Kadena miners without losing the robust security against
51% attacks that generating proofs provides. NoPool will demonstrate that a PoW
solution can be both decentralized and environmentally friendly.”

BITMAIN, which
[launched the ANTMINER KA3](https://www.bitmain.com/news-detail/bitmain-launches-antminer-ka3-entering-the-kadena-ecosystem-with-a-leap-in-computational-performance-242?tagSlug=)
in September of last year, will also be supporting the growth of NoPool by
encouraging customers to move toward clean energy and join this unique mining
pool. Additionally, the [Kadena Mining Club](https://kdamining.club/), a Kadena
miner hosting service where users purchase an NFT for membership, will also be
delegating hashrate to support the launch of NoPool. Added computing power will
be important as the pool is in beta testing with NoPool designed to undergo
progressive decentralization as new miners join the pool once access is opened
to the wider public.

Xmei Lin, President of the BITMAIN Mining Division, commented on the launch, “As
a leading manufacturer of cryptocurrency mining servers since 2013, we have been
dedicated to supporting PoW mining as its the most secure consensus mechanism.
With Kadena being the only PoW layer-1 that can scale, we’re committed more than
ever to ensuring the growth of Kadena’s ecosystem and demonstrating that PoW can
be made environmentally friendly as a result of NoPool’s unique incentives for
miners.”

NoPool is currently available as a private beta and miners can sign up via
[their website](https://nopool.com/). Following the private beta phase, NoPool
will launch publicly for Kadena developers in the coming months.

Mark Cavallo, Head of NoPool, concluded, “The Kadena ecosystem provides optimal
conditions for the development of NoPool because of its elegant improvement to
the PoW consensus mechanism that increases transactions per second and decreases
energy consumption per transaction. These features made the decision to build
native support for Kadena into our sustainable PoW pool an easy one and we look
forward to improving blockchain infrastructure and sustainability practices
together.”

**About Kadena:**

Kadena believes in the potential of blockchain to revolutionize how the world
interacts and transacts. To realize this vision, Kadena has reimagined
blockchain technology and its connective ecosystem from the ground up. Our
multi-chain architecture and complementary tools are designed to make blockchain
accessible for everyone — at speed, scale, and with energy efficiency previously
thought unachievable.

Website: [https://kadena.io](https://kadena.io/eco/)

Twitter: [https://twitter.com/kadena_io](https://twitter.com/kadena_io)

Telegram: [https://t.me/kadena_io](https://t.me/kadena_io)

Discord: [https://discord.gg/kadena](https://discord.gg/kadena)

**About NoPool**

NoPool is a cryptocurrency mining pool that was created to solve the problems of
centralized mining pools controlling the majority of blockchain processing power
and the environmental impact of that processing. The pool is part of a
distributed supercomputer that combines hundreds of thousands of personal
computers to perform blockchain and other processing, storage, and bandwidth
tasks. In addition to being carbon neutral itself, NoPool offers first-of-a-kind
incentives for miners to use clean energy.

To learn more about NoPool, please visit:
[https://nopool.com/](https://nopool.com/)

**About BITMAIN**

BITMAIN is the world’s leading manufacturer of cryptocurrency mining servers
through its brand ANTMINER, which has long maintained a global market share and
leading position in technology, serving customers across over 100 countries and
regions. The company has subsidiaries in China, the United States, Singapore,
Malaysia, Kazakhstan, and other locations.

BITMAIN offers cutting-edge technology in power efficiency, providing the global
blockchain network with advanced computational infrastructure and solutions.
Since its establishment in 2013, the hashrate of ANTMINER BTC miners has been
increased by three orders of magnitude, while the power efficiency of ANTMINER
BTC miners has been improved by two orders of magnitude. BITMAIN’s vision is to
create a better digital world.

To learn more about BITMAIN, please visit:
[https://www.bitmain.com/](https://www.bitmain.com/)
