---
title: Project Spotlight - Swarms.Finance
description:
  Today, we’re shining the spotlight on Swarms.Finance! Swarms.Finance is a
  platform built on the Kadena blockchain, with a mission to transform
  Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) within the world of
  decentralized finance (DeFi). The platform provides a comprehensive suite of
  tools and features for managing funds, investments, liquidity, swaps,
  payments, and purchases.
menu: Project Spotlight - Swarms.Finance
label: Project Spotlight - Swarms.Finance
publishDate: 2023-08-11
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

# Project Spotlight: Swarms.Finance

![](/assets/blog/2023/1_o2Ry6xVk_GnK-GvZrICtew.webp)

Welcome to Kadena Project Spotlight Series, where we highlight the
groundbreaking work of organizations currently building and innovating on the
Kadena blockchain!

Today, we’re shining the spotlight on Swarms.Finance! Swarms.Finance is a
platform built on the Kadena blockchain, with a mission to transform
Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) within the world of decentralized
finance (DeFi). The platform provides a comprehensive suite of tools and
features for managing funds, investments, liquidity, swaps, payments, and
purchases.

### **1. Can you explain the mechanics of how Swarms.Finance will work in terms of the creation and management of DAOs?**

Swarms.Finance’s user-friendly interface makes it incredibly easy to create and
manage DAOs of various shapes and sizes. Whether you are interested in
establishing a DAO that embodies the principles of equality, or one with
distinct roles and permissions akin to a Discord channel, our intuitive
interface and application allows users to experience a streamlined step-by-step
setup process, enabling the creation of a fully functional DAO in just 10
minutes.

Once a DAO is established, members gain access to the Swarms Dashboard, where
they can propose and vote on blockchain actions, such as fund transfers and DEX
Swaps. The dashboard is thoughtfully organized into sections, ensuring
effortless navigation, with the “Proposals” section serving as a central hub for
creating proposals.

At Swarm.Finance, we are committed to supporting DAOs through consultation,
marketing assistance, minor programming, and expert advice. Despite the success
of our early-stage DAOs, we are eager to extend our support to the right groups
looking to curate and nurture their DAOs. For eligible groups, we may even
provide startup KDA, demonstrating our dedication to fostering the growth of
promising DAO initiatives.

### **2. What sets Swarms.Finance apart from other DAO platforms?**

Swarms.Finance proudly holds the distinction of being the first DAO factory
platform on Kadena. Our core mission revolves around providing users with
trusted environments and communities, nurturing thriving DAO projects. We
believe that trust serves as the cornerstone of successful communities and
endeavors.

One of our most distinctive features is the ability for DAOs to exist
simultaneously on multiple chains. Whether a DAO is initially created on chain 1
and later expanded to chain 2 or any other number of chains within the Kadena
Blockchain, our platform empowers DAO creators to take their initiatives to
where they are needed most.

Furthermore, Swarms.Finance offers a diverse array of integrated apps within the
platform. For instance, if your DAO exists on chain 1, you can effortlessly
utilize the KDS DEX, while a DAO situated on chain 2 can seamlessly access the
Ecko DEX. We continuously work on integrating popular apps into Swarms.Finance,
pushing its evolution into the premier DAO platform on Kadena.

### **3. What are the advantages or unique features of using Kadena for building DAOs compared to other blockchain platforms?**

In addition to Kadena’s multi-chain capabilities, a key differentiating factor
that sets Kadena apart from other blockchains lies in its approach to gas fees
and gas stations. Swarms.Finance harnesses the innovative concept of Kadena gas
stations, giving users the power to easily migrate their DAOs across diverse
chains without incurring any fees.

Even in cases where users do encounter gas fees on the Kadena platform, they are
remarkably low, measured in fractions of a penny. This exceptional
cost-efficiency makes running a DAO on Kadena a highly practical and viable
endeavor. Our commitment to reducing gas fees and facilitating fee-less
migration exemplifies Swarms.Finance’s dedication to creating a user-friendly
and economically feasible environment for DAO operations.

### **4. What can we expect from Swarms.Finance in 6 months? In 1 year?**

We have ambitious plans for Swarms.Finance, including expanding our application
integrations. As new apps emerge, we are committed to seamlessly connecting them
to our platform, making it effortless for DAOs to leverage the full potential of
Kadena’s ecosystem. Additionally, we are developing Discord bot functionalities.

Looking ahead, our vision encompasses delivering top-tier trust-building tools
to the community. We are devoted to continually refining and enhancing
Swarms.Finance, striving to provide the most comprehensive and user-friendly
tools for cultivating trust, facilitating community growth, and empowering DAO
operations on the Kadena blockchain.

### **5. What attracted you to Kadena? What has it been like building on Kadena?**

Our primary concerns revolved around the limitations of Proof of Work smart
contracts and scalability within the Ethereum ecosystem. We endeavored to
collaborate with the Ethereum community and initiate a bootstrap project that
was hindered by exorbitant costs and a sense of exclusivity that made it
difficult for outsiders to participate fully. The Pact smart contract language
was extremely attractive to us as it was easy to learn, and we felt completely
secure while using it.

Likewise, other developers in our team also began their journey on Ethereum and
encountered vulnerabilities in Solidity, prompting a shift in their perceptions
of the platform. In contrast, Kadena’s non-Turing completeness introduces
certain programming challenges; however, it significantly enhances security
levels, instilling greater confidence in the platform’s reliability and
robustness.

Many thanks to Swarms.Finance for sharing their vision of what reshaping and
redefining DAOs in the world for DeFi looks like. We’ll be featuring more
Project Spotlights in the coming weeks, so stay tuned as we’ll continue to
profile innovative organizations that are currently building on Kadena!

To keep updated on Swarm.Finance’s progress, make sure to follow them on their
socials:

- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/SwarmsFinance)

- [Discord](https://discord.gg/y8KbQRxScF)

- [Github](https://github.com/squiegee/swarms)
