---
title: Spotlight on NoPool, Powered by Massive
description:
  Today, we are shining the spotlight on Massive, a company that’s bootstrapping
  a monetization alternative to online advertising. Massive’s SDK offers
  developers and their users the option of making money and paying with idle
  processing power, storage, and bandwidth rather than personal attention and
  data. 500,000-plus monthly active users have opted in with Massive and,
  together, form a supercomputer that compensates developers by hosting
  “massively” distributed projects. The company is funded by Point72 Ventures,
  Coinbase Ventures, Kraken Ventures, and other blockchain leaders.
menu: Spotlight on NoPool
label: Spotlight on NoPool
publishDate: 2023-02-23
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

## Project Spotlight: NoPool, Powered by Massive

Welcome to Kadena Eco’s Project Spotlight Series, where we highlight the
groundbreaking work of organizations currently innovating and building on
Kadena!

Today, we are shining the spotlight on **[Massive](https://joinmassive.com/)**,
a company that’s bootstrapping a monetization alternative to online advertising.
Massive’s SDK offers developers and their users the option of making money and
paying with idle processing power, storage, and bandwidth rather than personal
attention and data. 500,000-plus monthly active users have opted in with Massive
and, together, form a supercomputer that compensates developers by hosting
“massively” distributed projects. The company is funded by Point72 Ventures,
Coinbase Ventures, Kraken Ventures, and other blockchain leaders.

Massive is currently developing [\*\*NoPool](https://nopool.com/)\*\*, a
cryptocurrency mining pool with built-in Kadena support. NoPool is
revolutionizing mining by embracing progressive decentralization and by
incentivizing miners to use clean energy. The pool reduces fees for “green
miners” while being as performant as existing pools.

The Head of NoPool, [\*\*Mark Cavallo](https://markcavallo.webflow.io/)\*\*,
will be answering some pertinent and interesting questions about NoPool as well
as why Massive is choosing to build on the Kadena blockchain!

### What is NoPool? How does it work?

Proof of Work remains the only method that’s made 51% attacks and other related
threats sufficiently expensive to secure transactions at scale without relying
on central authorities (a 51% attack can occur when a group of miners aggregates
enough hashrate, stake weight, or equivalent voting power to rewrite a
blockchain’s transaction history).

However, with PoW’s mass adoption and heightened competition for mining rewards,
two new issues have emerged:

1.  Most PoW blockchains feature one centralized mining pool that controls the
    majority of the chain’s processing power, which counteracts the protection
    against 51% attacks.

2.  The environmental impact of generating proofs is a major objection to
    continued scaling.

NoPool is a Kadena-first, Stratum mining pool that was created to resolve these
issues while maintaining performance at competitive parity. The goals for the
pool are to have **no** centralization, **no** emission footprint or
conventional fees for low-emission miners, and **no** performance compromise.

NoPool’s current implementation does so by running on parts of
[Massive’s carbon-neutral distributed network](https://joinmassive.com/daas) and
by extending emission reduction beyond the network with first-of-a-kind
incentives for mining operations that are powered by clean energy. Over time,
the pool is set to increase distribution across the network and undergo
[progressive decentralization](https://a16z.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/principles-and-models-of-decentralization_miles-jennings_a16zcrypto.pdf).

### How is NoPool different from other mining pools? What kind of functionalities does NoPool have?

NoPool is designed to be both highly distributed and fully decentralized. The
pool is already more distributed than any Stratum pool has been before, by being
deployed to the Massive network’s most powerful computers, and every computer on
the network should be able to contribute in later project phases by becoming
Massive’s version of a generic blockchain light node.

NoPool’s governance is to likewise transition to “delegated decentralization”,
where decision-making power flows to miners based on their share of the pool’s
hashrate. NoPool is initially operated by a compliant US organization, which is
itself almost unique among pools.

The Massive network and, in turn, NoPool are also carbon neutral. NoPool
attempts to push sustainability practices further, to the extended network of
miners, by providing novel certifications and incentives. Mining operations that
use at least 80% clean energy are eligible to be certified as low-emission
miners and to receive feeless pool service starting with one month per quarter.

Meanwhile, benchmarks so far show that NoPool is as performant as legacy pools.

### When are you planning on launching NoPool?

We’ve begun onboarding miners who want to help us test (in exchange for paying
no pool fees) to NoPool’s private beta and we’ll publicly release the pool
toward the end of this quarter.

### How can miners participate in NoPool?

Everyone can sign up for beta access or more info about the public pool at
[nopool.com](https://nopool.com/).

### What attracted you to Kadena and support builders through Kadena Eco’s grants program?

We believe in the decentralized properties and time-tested security of Proof of
Work. Kadena is the natural partner to build our sustainable PoW pool with
because the Kadena blockchain adds an elegant improvement to the consensus
mechanism that increases transactions per second and decreases energy
consumption per transaction.

### What is one project you are currently working on that excites you the most?

Massive’s mission is to assemble a distributed computer that helps offer a more
user-friendly business model for and re-decentralize the infrastructure of the
internet, so we’re excited about all the developers who are either integrating
our SDK into their native and web apps or rolling their decentralized projects
out to our network. Under the latter category, we’ve been
[adding support for promising blockchain projects to the Massive network](https://github.com/joinmassive).
These projects include Arweave, Akash, and, of course, Kadena.

As the network scales, we’re starting to support non-blockchain processing,
storage, and bandwidth tasks too. Developers of general-purpose projects can now
push to hundreds of thousands of computers around the world by
[submitting a request to access the Massive network](https://joinmassive.com/).

### What can we expect from Massive in the next 6 months? Where will you be in 3 years?

Lots of app developers have been building with the Massive SDK, which should
lead in the short term to more in-app offers to pay for premium features,
content, and services with Massive. Longer term, we hope to have assembled the
world’s most powerful supercomputer so infrastructure developers can distribute
and decentralize arbitrary workloads instantly.

### What advice would you give to entrepreneurs looking to innovate in blockchain?

Although filling governments’ regulatory vacuum with get-rich-quick schemes
seems to mostly (and happily) be a thing of the past, the opportunity to wrest
the future of computing from mega corporations by delivering real utility to
people in a decentralized way continues to be (one might say) massive
(especially because the layer-1 rails like Kadena have already been laid). We’re
eager to see the emergence of such projects, executed with long-term thinking
and responsible stewardship, and to back them with distributed resources.

Many thanks to Mark for sharing what his vision of a sustainable crypto mining
future will look like. We’ll be featuring more project spotlights in the coming
weeks for Project Spotlights, so stay tuned as we’ll continue to profile
innovative organizations that are currently building on Kadena with support from
Kadena Eco, our innovation network that supports startups at every phase of
their development journey.

To keep updated on NoPool and Massive’s progress, make sure to follow them on
their socials:

- [Twitter](https://twitter.com/nopoolparty)

- [Medium](https://blog.nopool.com/)

- [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/XWQn4xcJAE)

- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/joinmassive/)

## ABOUT KADENA ECO

[Kadena Eco](https://medium.com/kadena-io/kadena-eco-grants-e5368b4f4c3a) is an
innovation network fuelling mainstream adoption of Web3, DeFi and NFTs. We unite
technical founders and entrepreneurs with the world’s top blockchain leaders,
venture capitalists and acceleration partners to support startups at every phase
of their development journey. By leveraging Kadena’s builder-centric blockchain
that delivers Web3 innovation with Web2 usability, Kadena Eco aims to speed the
development and adoption of meaningful applications that benefit everyday
people, worldwide.
