---
title:
  Top 5 Real World Use Cases of NFTs Redefining Ownership and Empowering
  Creators with Marmalade
description:
  Web3 is not only a finance revolution, it’s also a business evolution that
  harnesses powerful ideas such as the Wisdom of Crowds, composability,
  collaboration, decentralized storage, and headless branding. Prior to web3,
  these concepts were either impossible to implement or didn’t meet business
  standards. In this new paradigm, these ideas are multipliers that can launch
  web2 businesses into an ecosystem that is growing exponentially in every
  direction.
menu:
  Top 5 Real World Use Cases of NFTs Redefining Ownership and Empowering
  Creators with Marmalade
label:
  Top 5 Real World Use Cases of NFTs Redefining Ownership and Empowering
  Creators with Marmalade
publishDate: 2023-07-27
author: Kadena
authorId: kadena
layout: blog
---

# Top 5 Real World Use Cases of NFTs: Redefining Ownership and Empowering Creators with Marmalade

![](/assets/blog/2019/1_O0A6f20g8Tmzq-Lv3z_NxA.webp)

In recent years, Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) have taken the world by storm,
captivating both the art world and the digital landscape. These unique digital
assets, built on blockchain technology, present new opportunities for ownership,
authenticity, and monetization. While NFTs have garnered attention for their
record-breaking sales and speculative frenzy, their true value lies in their
potential to reshape industries, empower creators, and foster innovative
artistic expression. In this article, we will explore practical use cases of
NFTs, examine their transformative impact across different sectors, and discuss
how Marmalade can make this transformation possible.

## **Fractionalizing Investments**

NFTs have revolutionized investing by introducing fractionalized ownership. In
real estate sectors, NFTs allow investors to purchase fractional shares of
properties, allowing for portfolio diversification with lower capital
requirements. By tokenizing real estate assets into digital tokens, NFTs
democratize access to lucrative real estate investments and offer increased
liquidity. Investors can buy and sell their fractional shares more easily on
blockchain-based platforms.

Another example of fractionalized NFTs is the
[Kadena Mining Club](https://kdamining.club/) (KMC), a grantee of Kadena. KMC
gives investors the chance to mine KDA tokens without the hassles of purchasing
miners and creating mining set-ups. This innovative approach not only expands
investment possibilities, but also ensures transparency and security through the
use of blockchain technology. It brings a substantial level of convenience and
accessibility.

## **Gaming NFTs**

Game interoperability refers to the seamless movement of assets and data between
different games or platforms. NFTs enable players to potentially transfer their
virtual items across various games, bridging gaps between disparate gaming
worlds. This interoperability enhances player experiences and creates new
opportunities for developers and players alike.

Monetization is another crucial aspect of gaming NFTs. Gamers own their in-game
assets by leveraging NFTs. They also have the ability to trade, sell, or auction
them on open marketplaces. This introduces the concept of true digital ownership
and allows players to derive real-world value from their virtual possessions.
Developers can explore new revenue models by incorporating NFTs and benefiting
from in-game transactions through a royalty system.

## **Authentication and Identification**

NFTs can function as a digital fingerprint or seal of approval for the luxury
product, providing verification of its origin, provenance, and ownership
history. This solution is made possible through the integration of phygital NFTs
with real-world goods. By attaching NFTs to physical products, companies can
establish a digital identity that enables traceability back to the source. This
enhances credibility and adds value to industries like luxury goods and
pharmaceuticals, where counterfeiting has been a significant concern.

Throughout the lifecycle of an item, subsequent transactions or changes in
ownership can be recorded on the blockchain, creating a comprehensive and
immutable chain of custody. As an example, in a recent auction, Sotheby’s sold a
Schullin Wien 49ct Paraiba Tourmaline ring with its provenance verified by
Kadena grantee, [Database of Native Assets](https://thedna.tech/) (DNA), and
permanently stored on the Kadena blockchain.

## **Supply Chain Tracking and Trade Finance**

Businesses often lack knowledge about important touch points within their supply
chain, which can hinder their ability to optimize operations. Real-time tracking
facilitated by NFTs brings additional advantages, particularly in trade finance.
Financial institutions can leverage the real-time traceability of goods to
accurately monitor their progress, minimizing risk and streamlining financing
processes.

Kadena grantee, [Database of Native Assets](https://thedna.tech/) (DNA),
recently worked with Arqit and Imperial College in creating the world’s first
quantum-secure transaction between the governments of UK & Singapore. The
shipment was tracked in real-time using IoT devices, and minted onto an NFT on
Kadena’s blockchain.

## **NFTs are the Future with Marmalade, powered by Kadena**

The real-world applications of NFTs have proven to be diverse and impactful
across industries, spanning art, gaming, music, and supply chain. NFTs have
introduced new possibilities for ownership, authenticity, and value creation.
Inside this evolving landscape, Marmalade emerges as the most innovative NFT
standard in the industry.

Marmalade provides a comprehensive suite of tools that offers artists, creators,
users, builders, and marketplaces the means to unleash their creativity, connect
with a global community, and fully unlock the potential of their digital assets.
As the NFT ecosystem continues to expand, Marmalade stands at the forefront,
driving innovation, fostering trust, and shaping the future of NFTs as a
powerful and transformative technology.

If you’re interested in learning more about Marmalade, follow us on Twitter and
join our Discord today.
