---
title: Kadena & Hyperlane - A Next-Generation Bridge to EVM-Interoperability
description:
  In a major step towards achieving interoperability and broader ecosystem
  adoption, we are thrilled to announce that Kadena has partnered with Ideasoft
  to bring permissionless interoperability to the Kadena ecosystem via
  Hyperlane. The partnership will enhance access to several key components of
  the broader blockchain ecosystem that are not yet available for the Kadena
  community
menu: Kadena & Hyperlane - A Next-Generation Bridge to EVM-Interoperability
label: Kadena & Hyperlane - A Next-Generation Bridge to EVM-Interoperability
publishDate: 2023-10-31
headerImage: /assets/blog/2023/1_6W-sSp30BcE2Ta5HwzB8Vw.webp
tags: [kadena, evm, partnership, defi]
author: Kadena
authorId: kadena
layout: blog
---

# Kadena & Hyperlane: A Next-Generation Bridge to EVM-Interoperability

In a major step towards achieving interoperability and broader ecosystem
adoption, we are thrilled to announce that Kadena has partnered with Ideasoft to
bring permissionless interoperability to the Kadena ecosystem via Hyperlane.

**The partnership will enhance access to several key components of the broader
blockchain ecosystem that are not yet available for the Kadena community,
including:**

1. Ability to import and export tokens and NFTs through the Hyperlane Network

2. Opportunities to use DeFi financial instruments

3. Potential for a wider user base to interact with dApps on different
   blockchains

4. Potential for more liquidity and stablecoins with an easy-to-use interface

5. EVM-compatibility

## What is Hyperlane?

Hyperlane is an interconnected super highway that connects different blockchains
that want to communicate with each other. Hyperlane’s introduction into Kadena’s
tech stack addresses a fundamental challenge in the blockchain space: a lack of
custom-built, multi-chain security for developers. With the integration of
Hyperlane, Kadena is poised to forge connections and foster innovation with some
of the industry’s most widely adopted chains, including Ethereum, Cosmos,
Polkadot, and more.

By harnessing the power of Hyperlane, Kadena further enables developers to build
decentralized applications (dApps) quickly and easily, providing seamless,
interconnected experiences across multiple chains. Furthermore, Hyperlane
improves on pre-existing security concerns that are present in bridges.

**Hyperlane differs from other interoperability protocols in a few key ways:**

1.  **Permissionless**: Anyone can deploy and use it without seeking approval
    from a central authority, nor do developers need to pay Hyperlane hundreds
    of thousands of dollars to use it. Deploying Hyperlane consists of running a
    few scripts on the Hyperlane docs.

2.  **Modularity:** Developers can choose the security features that best meet
    their needs. Modular construction is generally an answer to many of the
    problems blockchains face today. Each recipient of a smart contract
    configures the security parameters for messages it receives.

3.  **Customizable Cross-Chain Security:** Hyperlane’s interchain security
    modules give developers granular control over security. It allows developers
    to configure, compose, and customize security settings according to a
    specific application’s needs. Furthermore, Hyperlane enables developers to
    build dApps that can span multiple blockchains while still maintaining a
    high level of security. Both chains (or all chains) involved in a
    transaction can have their specific security needs met.

Developers can also access APIs and SDKs to build dApps and communicate
seamlessly across multiple blockchains.

As a result, the Kadena community will gain access to a wider range of products
through the security foundation they expect from our network.

Overall, Hyperlane is a powerful tool that can revolutionize how Kadena
interacts with blockchain applications on other chains. By making it easy for
developers to build cross-chain dApps for users to interact with, Hyperlane is
helping to create a more interconnected and user-friendly blockchain ecosystem.

## Ideasoft: Helping Kadena go Interchain

Through the Kadena Grant Program, Ideasoft has become a key partner in building
the infrastructure needed to implement Hyperlane into Kadena’s technology stack.

Ideasoft is an internationally recognized development shop. It is known for
pioneering blockchain solutions and developing battle-tested, innovative
software across Web2 and Web3. It is spearheading the integration of Hyperlane
as a Kadena grantee.

This initiative commenced with a collaborative effort between Kadena’s internal
developers and Ideasoft. The goal was to architect the integration design,
define components, and implement Kadena-native security protocols.

Currently, the Ideasoft team is constructing a Kadena-compatible relayer to
facilitate message transmission between Kadena and wider ecosystem chains.
Simultaneously, Ideasoft will implement Hyperlane’s Interchain Security Modules
(ISMs) to ensure secure cross-chain transactions.

Ideasoft’s final step is to develop a user-friendly, front-end interface that
simplifies user interaction with Kadena and other ecosystems, such as the EVM
ecosystem.

## Bridging Kadena’s Technology to the World

The intuitive interface will enable seamless and secure trading of ERC-20 and
KIP-0002 tokens, significantly expanding the opportunities for the broader
crypto community to interact with Kadena’s technology. For example, Kadena NFTs
built with Marmalade V2 will also become cross-chain compatible in the future,
allowing a robust array of destinations for Kadena-built NFTs.

However, while Hyperlane will enable EVM compatibility for Kadena, it will still
harness all of the security advantages that Kadena offers.

Chiefly, it will still use the Pact programming language, which was specifically
designed for security. Pact thwarts many common potential threats, such as
re-entrancy attacks and infinite loops. Yet, Pact offers unique capabilities
that are not found in other languages. One such feature is formal code
verification, which is more reliable than unit tests.

## Kadena’s Future is Interoperable

The future for the Kadena community is promising. This pioneering project not
only paves the way for a unified blockchain ecosystem but also fuels a wave of
development for decentralized applications (dApps) and interchain applications
with Kadena’s technology as the foundation.

With Hyperlane’s help, Kadena users can become more integrated into the broader
crypto ecosystem and provide seamless experiences, regardless of the underlying
chains.

This marks the start of a new era for Kadena and its community. We’re excited to
have you along for the ride!

Stay tuned for the [official release date](https://twitter.com/kadena_io) and
the upcoming Kadena campfire on November 8th, featuring Ideasoft’s CEO and COO.
Set notifications on X ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/kadena_io)) to stay
updated with the latest announcements.
