---
title: High gas prices peril or promise for DeFi?
description:
  On September 1, Ethereum set a new record for high gas prices, with a single
  DeFi transaction costing over $10 in fees. High fees are the result of
  congestion, as users pay ever higher fees to ensure their transaction gets
  into a block. Gas on Ethereum can be seen as “block space rent” and many are
  saying the rent is too damn high.
menu: High gas prices peril or promise for DeFi?
label: High gas prices peril or promise for DeFi?
publishDate: 2020-09-02
author: Stuart Popejoy
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_fynn5el1Ya3Q6F-TbBTFGg.webp)

# High gas prices: peril or promise for DeFi?

_As DeFi takes off, the price of gas on Ethereum threatens its future. Or does
it?_

On September 1,
[Ethereum set a new record for high gas prices](https://www.coindesk.com/ethereum-fees-record-highs-defi-expensive-tether),
with a single DeFi transaction costing over $10 in fees. High fees are the
result of congestion, as users pay ever higher fees to ensure their transaction
gets into a block. Gas on Ethereum can be seen as “block space rent” and many
are saying the rent is too damn high.

That depends on who you ask, though. Even a $10 fee is a small fraction of many
DeFi trades, as speculators are by definition those who have “money to burn.”
For the moment at least, DeFi is a market that exists on Ethereum. If you have
profitable trades to make on DeFi, then gas is simply another cost of doing
business, since there is no other way to make the trade.

This is why high gas prices don’t cause Ethereum leaders and boosters to lose
sleep: the very fact of high gas prices only serves to amplify the message that
Ethereum is the only game in town. It’s certainly true for DeFi today, but it
can also translate to the perception of Ethereum as the only platform for smart
contracts. Why go anywhere else when gas prices prove that the party is at
Vitalik’s house?

Gas prices go up as Ethereum gets more congested, and while the current rate is
eye-poppingly high, congestion on Ethereum is nothing new. In late 2017,
CryptoKitties was a collectibles game new to Ethereum that exploded in
popularity and instantly caused the entire network to slow to a crawl.
Non-CryptoKitties transactions such as
[entire ICOs](https://www.coindesk.com/ethereums-cryptokitties-blockchain-deluge-sparks-ico-delay)
went from minutes to hours and even* days* for completion.

For dApp developers and projects this was, and still is, extremely worrisome. If
gas prices are block rent, _immediacy _— the ability to transact in some
predictable amount of time — is an arbitrary popularity contest. If you are the
developer of an application that provides a time-sensitive service to a minority
of Ethereum users, you can find yourself waiting behind a deluge of transactions
to serve the latest craze, simply because it is attracting more users than your
app. It doesn’t matter that those users represent an entirely different market:
your app will still lose based on numbers alone.

This is compounded by the fact that not all applications are designed to net
their users hundreds or thousands of dollars with every transaction, like the
transactions of your average DeFi speculator. For a non-DeFi application, high
gas prices exact an arbitrary drain on their ability to deliver value. Like high
rents on commercial real estate, it can drive these efforts “out of business” if
the mere cost of executing a transaction exceeds whatever revenue could ever be
made in that transaction. High gas prices make blockchain a “playground of the
wealthy.”

While Ethereum’s high gas prices seem to only cement Ethereum’s network value,
it also inescapably damages Ethereum’s utility as a smart contract platform for
delivering decentralized and world-changing applications to the larger
population. Instead, expensive gas fees serve to limit the market to rich
speculators. This is not to disparage DeFi, as decentralized finance itself
opens up markets to non-traditional participants. That said, the promise of
smart contracts on a decentralized platform goes well beyond financial
engineering.

Also, it is worth noting that major DeFi participants are actively planning
moves onto other platforms, with USDT (Tether) just announcing another
alternative platform partner. So while Ethereum is the main game in town, many
projects are seeing the writing on the wall that something has to change as
Ethereum is clearly bursting at its seams. Why now? If this problem dates back
to CryptoKitties, where any application is at the mercy of the most popular dApp
destroying the network’s ability to function properly, what has changed?

For a long time, Ethereum has been pointing to a future where the blockchain
changes to Proof of Stake. In the last few years, the focus has been on Ethereum
2.0, which intends to deliver a sharded solution to solve congestion problems.
The combination of Proof of Stake and sharding sounds perfect, and has served to
reassure Ethereum projects that the current congestion problems and high gas
prices will soon be a thing of the past.

The problem is that Ethereum has proven themselves incapable of shipping
promised improvements on any kind of reliable schedule, with a production
Ethereum 2.0 sharded network always staying 1 or 2 years away. 2020 has been the
year that faith in Ethereum 2.0 finally cracked, creating opportunities for
alternative platforms that can actually deliver a scalable solution. Now,
leading projects are actively working with blockchain platforms like Cosmos,
Polkadot and Kadena to build “exit ramps” off Ethereum, even as DeFi hits new
highs.

For DeFi, the future looks bright. Even as high gas prices lead to questions
about the promise of blockchain, DeFi is forcing the ecosystem to consider new
participants who can deliver where Ethereum 2.0 has failed. There are scalable
blockchain platforms today that offer solutions where high traffic doesn’t mean
high gas prices, where an application that is popular with one set of users
doesn’t threaten the viability of another that is delivering critical services
to a minority. We are at the start of a major transition in smart contract
blockchains. What lies ahead is a future where blockchain technology moves
beyond speculation to solve real problems.
