---
title:
  Kadena’s KDA Token Has First Listing on Bittrex Global, a Top Ten Exchange
description:
  The company is also open-sourcing a COVID-19 test result tracking dApp and
  announcing the public blockchain shard count is scaling from 10 to 20 chains
  BROOKLYN, N.Y., June 25, 2020 — Kadena, the first blockchain technology
  company to come out of JP Morgan’s Blockchain Center for Excellence, will have
  the first official listing of its KDA token on Bittrex Global. Bittrex Global
  is a Top Ten exchange as measured by real trade volume according to Bitwise
  Investments and Messari. The company is also open-sourcing a coronavirus test
  result tracking application made available for the healthcare industry
  effective immediately. Additionally, Kadena continues to lead the industry by
  announcing that its public network is scaling from 10 to 20 chains on July 31.
menu: Kadena’s KDA Token Has First Listing on Bittrex Global, a Top Ten Exchange
label:
  Kadena’s KDA Token Has First Listing on Bittrex Global, a Top Ten Exchange
publishDate: 2020-06-25
author: Tony Pham
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_HJDBr9jX5Ajucwmynt15eg.webp)

# Kadena’s KDA Token Has First Listing on Bittrex Global, a Top Ten Exchange

_The company is also open-sourcing a COVID-19 test result tracking dApp and
announcing the public blockchain shard count is scaling from 10 to 20 chains_

**BROOKLYN, N.Y., June 25, 2020 —** Kadena, the first blockchain technology
company to come out of JP Morgan’s Blockchain Center for Excellence, will have
the first official listing of its KDA token on
[Bittrex Global](https://global.bittrex.com). Bittrex Global is a Top Ten
exchange as measured by real trade volume according to Bitwise Investments and
Messari. The company is also open-sourcing a coronavirus test result tracking
application made available for the healthcare industry effective immediately.
Additionally, Kadena continues to lead the industry by announcing that its
public network is scaling from 10 to 20 chains on July 31.

**Bittrex Global Exchange First To List KDA Token**

“After successfully rolling out Kadena’s hybrid blockchain platform in stages,
culminating with our full feature launch at the start of this year, the team
turned our attention towards the community,” said Kadena Founder and CEO Will
Martino. “Now, Kadena is excited to have Bittrex Global be the first exchange to
officially list KDA.”

KDA tokens are directly transferable between individuals. The tokens are used
for both the creation of new smart contacts as well as for paying the gas cost
of executing smart contracts. Kadena’s smart contracts are written in Pact, an
open-source, Turning-incomplete, and human-readable language with formal
verification.

“We welcome Kadena’s exciting blockchain solution to the Bittrex Global
Exchange,” said Bittrex Global CEO Tom Albright. “The COVID-19 pandemic has
validated the market need for the speed, reliability, and security Kadena offers
the enterprise healthcare, finance and insurance industries.”

The initial KDA trading pairs on Bittrex Global will be with Bitcoin (BTC) and
Tether (USDT). Bittrex Global is a reliable and secure digital asset trading
platform developed for customers outside of the United States. This listing
provides miners and other community members located internationally with access
to liquidity for KDA.

The KDA wallet is now launched on Bittrex Global. The market launch and trading
open _Monday, June 29th, at 8 am PT / 11 am ET.\*_

\*_Corrected trading date on 6/29/20_

**Kadena Launches COVID-19 Blockchain Application**

Along with the listing, the Kadena team is open-sourcing a decentralized
application (dApp) that any healthcare professional is welcome to use for
managing and validating COVID-19 test results. The dApp is
[available on testnet](https://covid19-dashboard.chainweb.com) immediately; no
previous experience with blockchain is required. Users do _not_ need to onboard
with KDA tokens or a crypto wallet to use any application functionality.
Kadena’s unique gas station feature allows a seamless onboarding for those new
to blockchain.

The dApp is designed to address problems with the aggregation and efficient
distribution of test results as well as concerns about the quality of the
testing kits. The security of the blockchain ensures that no protected health
information is accessible to unauthorized parties. For healthcare professionals,
the dApp has three steps:

1.  Scanning a QR code associated with a testing kit

2.  Entering patient information to the generated web form and submitting

3.  Storing the testing kit ID, patient information, and test results on
    Kadena’s hybrid blockchain platform

Kadena Co-Founder and CEO Will Martino stated, “Unfortunately, the pandemic has
underscored the limitations of highly centralized and bureaucratic institutions.
By open-sourcing a coronavirus test management dApp, Kadena’s goal is to give
healthcare professionals a simple tool that they can start using right away.
Tracking COVID-19 test results on blockchain means not needing to trust a single
government or any centralized authority. The data is trustless because it cannot
be changed. Using Kadena’s hybrid blockchain platform, sensitive data can be
stored safely and shared quickly.”

The dApp provides a secure way to distribute results among medical teams and
patients. In aggregate, the privacy-protected data can help academics and
government officials better understand how the virus is spreading
demographically. Public health professionals that would like to get started can
send an email to [covid@kadena.io](mailto:covid@kadena.io) for more information.
To see how the dApp works, watch this
[30-second explainer video](https://youtu.be/y7R6RbSptE0).

**Kadena To Scale Sharded Layer-1 PoW Blockchain From 10 To 20 Braided Chains**

Kadena Co-Founder and President Stuart Popejoy shared, “If blockchain is ever to
see mainstream adoption, it is vital to demonstrate a system that scales as well
as the existing non-decentralized platforms that currently dominate the digital
world. With Kadena’s public Chainweb protocol already operating 10 braided
chains, demonstrating the smooth transition to 20 chains will be both a
significant technological breakthrough and a confirmation that scalable
blockchain technology has arrived. It is critical that blockchain technology is
driven by Proof of Work to guarantee a level playing field for all network
participants, which is what will ultimately drive adoption away from centralized
platforms — Proof of Stake puts too much power in the hands of token holders at
the expense of users.”

“Bitcoin was created in response to central banks printing unlimited amounts of
money during the Great Recession,” said Kadena Co-Founder and CEO Will Martino.
”For all of Bitcoin’s innovation, since its inception, there have been known
scaling challenges. A decade later, as financial history repeats itself with
seemingly endless quantitative easing, Kadena has launched to successfully scale
a sharded layer-1 PoW network,” said Will Martino, Co-Founder and CEO of Kadena.

He added, “We created Kadena to fix the fundamental scaling problem with
Bitcoin, which has been a barrier to mainstream adoption. Launching Kadena and
expanding to 20 chains proves that we can scale a layer-1 blockchain to the
point where digital assets can go mainstream. Growing from 10 to 20 chains means
that the infrastructure exists to service the needs of the digital economy.
Kadena has solved the previously long-standing problem of how to securely scale
a public blockchain; we’re the only project that has done it.”

Using the same amount of energy as 1 or 10 chains, Kadena will demonstrate 20
chains working in parallel with its unique Chainweb protocol. Growing the shard
count from 10 to 20 chains not only doubles the
[current throughput](https://explorer.chainweb.com/mainnet), it also proves the
feasibility of Kadena’s blockchain to scale to 100, 1000, and an ever-increasing
number of chains on the public network. To see a visualization of Kadena’s
blockchain innovation, which has been
[verified by independent experts](https://www.forbes.com/sites/darrynpollock/2019/04/29/high-frequency-trading-researcher-publishes-findings-on-jpmorgan-blockchain-spin-off/#58e9df1f2915),
view this video on YouTube:
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hYvXxFbsN6I](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hYvXxFbsN6I).

_To learn more about Kadena’s blockchain, contact our team on
[Discord](https://discordapp.com/invite/bsUcWmX), visit
[GitHub](https://github.com/kadena-io), or subscribe to our
[newsletter](http://eepurl.com/dk-Sbz)._

---

**About Kadena**

Kadena provides a hybrid blockchain platform, featuring the only sharded and
scalable layer-1 PoW public network. Kadena solves the scaling challenges of
Bitcoin and the security issues of Ethereum. Kadena’s founders created JP
Morgan’s first blockchain and worked at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Kadena is live with partners including Cosmos and USCF (a $3 billion
fund). For more information, visit [www.kadena.io](http://www.kadena.io) or
follow @kadena_io on Twitter.
