---
title:
  Kadena Building DeFi Bridge to Celo and Joining Alliance for Prosperity, also
  Announcing Bounty Program for Kadenaswap DEX
description:
  Kadena, the first blockchain technology company to come out of J.P. Morgan’s
  Blockchain Center for Excellence, and Celo, an open platform that makes
  financial tools accessible to anyone with a mobile phone, are announcing a
  partnership. As part of the collaboration, Kadena is joining the Alliance for
  Prosperity. The partnership will see both Celo’s cUSD stablecoin and Kadena’s
  KDA token interoperate on both platforms via a trustless bridge relay,
  increasing utilization for both tokens.
menu:
  Kadena Building DeFi Bridge to Celo and Joining Alliance for Prosperity, also
  Announcing Bounty Program for Kadenaswap DEX
label:
  Kadena Building DeFi Bridge to Celo and Joining Alliance for Prosperity, also
  Announcing Bounty Program for Kadenaswap DEX
publishDate: 2020-12-15
author: Tony Pham
authorId: tony.pham
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_BWXDWnNDfpa6zTljd7rguQ.webp)

# Kadena Building DeFi Bridge to Celo and Joining Alliance for Prosperity, also Announcing Bounty Program for Kadenaswap DEX

_The partnership will allow Celo’s cUSD stablecoin and Kadena’s KDA token to
interoperate across both networks via a trustless bridge relay_

**New York, N.Y**. — **December 15, 2020** — Kadena, the first blockchain
technology company to come out of J.P. Morgan’s Blockchain Center for
Excellence, and Celo, an open platform that makes financial tools accessible to
anyone with a mobile phone, are announcing a partnership. As part of the
collaboration, Kadena is joining the Alliance for Prosperity. The partnership
will see both Celo’s cUSD stablecoin and Kadena’s KDA token interoperate on both
platforms via a trustless bridge relay, increasing utilization for both tokens.
And, later this month, Kadena is launching a bounty program on mainnet for its
upcoming DEX called Kadenaswap.

The Celo Foundation and Kadena are teaming up to provide better market access to
token holders. This development with Celo builds upon Kadena’s recent
partnership with Terra to add the LUNA stablecoin to Kadenswap, as well as
Kadena’s integrations with Cosmos and Polkadot. In addition to bringing more
markets to holders of cUSD, the bridge also paves the way for KDA to participate
in collateralization of the Celo stablecoin, which would benefit KDA token
holders.

“We’re excited to be working with Celo and the Alliance for Prosperity,” said
Kadena Co-founder Stuart Popejoy. “Our affinity with Celo comes from sharing a
forward-looking approach towards cryptocurrency economies. Both projects support
tokens that solve for current deficiencies in the Ethereum-based market while
preserving security and decentralization. The Celo-Kadena bridge brings more
value to the DeFi market while, building upon the addition of LUNA to
Kadenaswap, also providing more ways for token holders to transact.”

“The Celo Foundation is very excited by the long term potential of the
Celo-Kadena bridge and the increased collaboration between the two communities,”
said Celo Co-founder Marek Olszewski. “The cUSD stablecoin represents one of
just a few algorithmic and permissionless stablecoins available today and we’re
excited to see the asset bridged to Kadena and other networks where it can be
composed with a greater number of DeFi applications. As one of the few networks
with programmable Blake2s support (arriving in the Donut hardfork), we’re
thrilled that Celo will be able to natively verify the Kadena light client
protocol on chain, allowing the bridge to operate in a fully trustless manner.”

As progress gets underway with the Celo partnership, the Kadenaswap
multi-protocol DEX moves forward. Kadenaswap will reach a major milestone later
this month with the “Bountyswap” release. With Bountyswap, participants are
incentivized to find bugs in Kadenaswap by fully-funded test pairs on mainnet,
with Kadena funding up to 100,000 KDA in each pair. If participants can hack the
network to “steal” KDA, they keep the proceeds. In contrast to a standard bug
bounty program, the honeypot structure allows for potentially larger rewards to
“white hat” hackers. Successful completion of the bounty program on mainnet is
an important step towards the full launch of cryptocurrency market pairs on
Kadenaswap on January 29, 2021.

**About Kadena**

Kadena provides the world’s fastest hybrid blockchain platform, consisting of
the only sharded and scalable layer-1 PoW public network, the Kuro permissioned
blockchain, and the Pact smart contract language. Kadena solves the scaling
challenges of Bitcoin and the security issues of Ethereum. Kadena’s founders
created J.P. Morgan’s first blockchain and worked at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Kadena is live with partners including USCF (a $3 billion
fund) and leading DeFi projects. For more information, visit
[www.kadena.io](http://www.kadena.io/) or follow
[@kadena_io](http://twitter.com/kadena_io) on Twitter.

**About Celo**

Celo is an open blockchain platform that makes financial tools accessible to
anyone with a mobile phone. The novel proof of stake network enables
mobile-first access to DeFi and dapps. Celo’s ultralight client is over 700,000x
lighter than other networks and enables any smartphone, even with limited
internet connectivity, to quickly and easily sync with the network. Its open
source technology can be leveraged to build an ecosystem of powerful mobile
applications, ranging from easier cash transfer programs to peer-to-peer
lending, international remittances to digital assets and wallets. Visit celo.org
for more information and receive updates about Celo in your inbox news.celo.org.
