---
title: Kadena Launches Public Chain with Smart Contract Transactions
description:
  Kadena, the first blockchain technology company to come out of JP Morgan’s
  Blockchain Center for Excellence, has announced the full launch of its public
  blockchain. Kadena’s public blockchain is first to market as a sharded Proof
  of Work Layer 1 network. Following the start of genesis mining in October
  2019, Kadena has surpassed having two million blocks mined at hash rates as
  high as 40 TH/s. Today’s launch includes full transactions and the ability to
  write smart contracts.
menu: Kadena Launches Public Chain with Smart Contract Transactions
label: Kadena Launches Public Chain with Smart Contract Transactions
publishDate: 2020-01-15
author: Stuart Popejoy
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_VzDmro2_e8CPGbUG0qyD-w.webp)

# Kadena Launches Public Chain with Smart Contract Transactions

## Kadena Launches Public Chain with Smart Contract Transactions

_Kadena solves the scaling challenges of Bitcoin and the security issues of
Ethereum by delivering the industry’s first hybrid blockchain_

**BROOKLYN, NY — January 15, 2020 —** Kadena, the first blockchain technology
company to come out of JP Morgan’s Blockchain Center for Excellence, has
announced the full launch of its public blockchain. Kadena’s public blockchain
is first to market as a sharded Proof of Work Layer 1 network. Following the
start of genesis mining in October 2019, Kadena has surpassed having two million
blocks mined at hash rates as high as 40 TH/s. Today’s launch includes full
transactions and the ability to write smart contracts. The latest
functionalities of the network complete Kadena’s hybrid blockchain platform.
[Kadena](https://www.kadena.io) is already delivering interoperability,
scalability, and security across industries including
[finance](https://medium.com/kadena-io/uscf-collaborates-with-kadena-on-use-of-blockchain-in-the-investment-space-f8b16f7a38bb),
[healthcare](https://medium.com/kadena-io/kadena-and-rymedi-validate-quality-of-medicinal-products-on-blockchain-244d5fb8d699),
and insurance.

The hybrid blockchain supports interoperability using Pact, Kadena’s
open-source, Turing-incomplete smart contract language with Formal Verification.
The simple smart contract language is powerful enough to code complex contracts
and execute multi-party transactions. Enterprises and developers alike will find
that applications once considered too difficult to build are now achievable with
Kadena. Removing the complexity and vulnerability of other smart contract
languages, Pact advances secure and legible transactions.

“Despite blockchain having immense potential, our experience building JP
Morgan’s first blockchain showed us its limitations,” said Founder and President
Stuart Popejoy. “Launching a fully functional hybrid blockchain which seamlessly
integrates a public chain with a private network is a significant step forward
in reimagining what applications can do on-chain.”

Kadena’s public blockchain functions through a braided, parallelized Proof of
Work consensus mechanism, the only protocol that has been validated in the
market. The architecture enhances throughput and scalability while preserving
the reliability of Bitcoin. Kadena Kuro, the platform’s next-generation private
blockchain, overcomes the challenges of security, scalability, and speed found
in existing blockchains such as Ethereum.

“We’ve solved the scaling challenges of Bitcoin with parallel Proof of Work
chains while addressing the security issues of Ethereum with Pact,” said Founder
and CEO Will Martino. “Today’s launch of our public blockchain with smart
contract transactions, which completes our hybrid platform, advances mainstream
adoption. We’re excited to see how Kadena’s blockchain will empower
entrepreneurs and enterprises to bring in Economics 2.0.”

The launch comes after Kadena completed a year full of milestones in 2019,
including the news that next-generation blockchain networks such as Cosmos and
Polkadot are looking to implement the Pact smart contract language. Businesses
exploring deployment of applications on blockchain were able to utilize the
speed and security of Kadena Kuro when it got listed on
[AWS Marketplace](https://fortune.com/2019/01/23/blockchain-aws-kadena) and
[Azure Marketplace](https://medium.com/kadena-io/kadena-launches-blockchain-as-a-service-baas-on-azure-marketplace-7030ec35f56c)
with free community editions.

**About Kadena**

Kadena provides the only public blockchain that is production-ready for smart
contracts, solving the scaling challenges of Bitcoin and the security issues of
Ethereum. Kadena’s founders created JP Morgan’s first blockchain and worked at
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The team is the first to bring
together engineers with decades of banking, commerce, and regulatory experience
to a public blockchain. Kadena is in use with businesses including USCF (a $3
billion fund) and Rymedi (tracking the quality of medicinal products). For more
information, visit [www.kadena.io](http://www.kadena.io).
