---
title:
  Kadena Completes Hybrid Blockchain Scaling to 480,000 Transactions Per Second
  on 20 Chains
description:
  Company concludes monumental upgrade to the world’s first sharded Proof of
  Work layer-1 blockchain for the scale required of institutional and retail
  applications NEW YORK — Aug 20, 2020 — Kadena, the first blockchain technology
  company to come out of J.P. Morgan’s Blockchain Center for Excellence, today
  announced that its scalable layer-1 public blockchain has increased from 10 to
  20 chains, becoming the fastest blockchain platform in the world. Kadena’s
  Chainweb public protocol functions through a braided, parallelized consensus
  mechanism, a unique architecture that boosts speeds while preserving the
  security of the Proof of Work consensus utilized by Bitcoin.
menu:
  Kadena Completes Hybrid Blockchain Scaling to 480,000 Transactions Per Second
  on 20 Chains
label:
  Kadena Completes Hybrid Blockchain Scaling to 480,000 Transactions Per Second
  on 20 Chains
publishDate: 2020-08-20
author: Tony Pham
authorId: tony.pham
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_40MoCSBHaDVFNJCgIcrGqQ.webp)

# Kadena Completes Hybrid Blockchain Scaling to 480,000 Transactions Per Second on 20 Chains

_Company concludes monumental upgrade to the world’s first sharded Proof of Work
layer-1 blockchain for the scale required of institutional and retail
applications_

**NEW YORK — Aug 20, 2020** — Kadena, the first blockchain technology company to
come out of J.P. Morgan’s Blockchain Center for Excellence, today announced that
its scalable layer-1 public blockchain has increased from 10 to 20 chains,
becoming the fastest blockchain platform in the world. Kadena’s Chainweb public
protocol functions through a braided, parallelized consensus mechanism, a unique
architecture that boosts speeds while preserving the security of the Proof of
Work consensus utilized by Bitcoin.

The company also announced that Kadena Kuro, the platform’s next-generation
private blockchain, is now available completely free of charge and has been
designated as a fully open-sourced project. Previously, Kuro Community Editions
could be trialed on
[AWS Marketplace](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/Kadena-LLC-Kadena-Blockchain-for-Enterprise-Commun/B07MKMKP4F)
and
[Microsoft Azure](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/kadenallc.scalablebft)
with some limitations. Due to the increased developer demand for their smart
contract language, Pact, as evidenced by collaborations with
[Polkadot](https://polkadot.network) and [Cosmos](https://cosmos.network),
Kadena is making Kuro accessible to as many organizations as possible.

“With the open-sourcing of Kuro, our high-performance permissioned blockchain,
smart contract developers working in Pact can now effortlessly leverage our
hybrid platform to scale to unmatched transactional performance and throughput.
We’re giving blockchain engineers the freedom to customize their architecture to
achieve their specific requirements,” said Kadena Co-Founder and President
Stuart Popejoy. “With Kuro, developers can take a hub-and-spoke approach, where
Kuro nodes service the public chains uniformly. However, the unique nature of
Chainweb also allows an extremely high-throughput multi-cluster of Kuro nodes to
service individual public chains, an entirely new architecture in blockchain
that greatly magnifies the throughput of our sharded base layer.”

He added, “The Kadena hybrid blockchain platform allows developers to pick and
choose methodologies for inter-chain communication, thanks to the flexibility of
Pact. dApps can run with entirely trustless bridges, with two-way verification
of consensus proofs. Pact multisig offers effortless authorization that
leverages HSMs and modern standards like OAuth/PKCS-12 to enforce security
protocols, avoiding expensive on-chain verifications. The Kadena hybrid platform
offers real-world throughput and performance as well as best-in-class
cross-chain security, all without tying developers to a particular approach.”

Towards the end of 2019, Kadena underwent a rigorous pro-level Wall Street
quantitative analysis to prove its scalability and security. According to
independently verified
[third party research](https://medium.com/gauntlet-networks/analysis-of-kadenas-public-blockchain-protocol-31c66347e32e)
conducted by [Gauntlet Networks](https://gauntlet.network), Kadena is the first
and only project to successfully scale Proof of Work securely. Following the
launch of their sharded Proof of Work layer-1 network earlier this year, Kadena
has completed the most significant upgrade of the platform to date, expanding
from 10 to 20 braided chains on mainnet. The increase in chains brings a
doubling of throughput, already unmatched among Proof-of-Work blockchain
networks. With 20 chains, the Kadena hybrid blockchain platform achieves an
industry-leading 480,000 transactions per second.

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_p6WZuf2vAj5qzBUbg0fiWA.webp)

One popular criticism of the Proof of Work consensus mechanism has been the
amount of energy used to mine cryptocurrency. However, in addition to unmatched
speed, Kadena’s blockchain does not increase energy consumption as it scales. In
an industry first, Kadena has shown to use the same amount of energy at 10
chains as with 20 chains due to its unique Chainweb protocol. Growing the shard
count from 10 to 20 chains not only doubles the current throughput; it also
proves the feasibility of Kadena’s blockchain to scale to 100, 1,000, and an
ever-increasing number of chains on the public network.

“We created Kadena to fix the fundamental scaling problem with Bitcoin, which
has been a barrier to mainstream adoption. Launching Kadena, and now expanding
to 20 chains, proves that we can scale a layer-1 blockchain to the point where
digital assets can go mainstream,” said Kadena Co-Founder and CEO Will Martino.
“Growing from 10 to 20 chains means that the infrastructure now exists to
service the needs of the digital economy. Kadena has solved the previously
long-standing problem of how to securely scale a public blockchain — we’re the
only project that has been able to do it.”

Kadena’s innovation has been reinforced by an advisory board that includes the
co-inventor of blockchain, Dr. Stuart Haber. Haber is often recognized for
laying the groundwork for blockchain back in 1990, and later operating the
world’s earliest blockchain. Haber is one of the most cited authors in the
seminal 2008 paper by Satoshi Nakamoto that outlined the first digital currency,
Bitcoin. As one of the preeminent minds in blockchain, Haber continues to bring
foundational expertise that has been invaluable to Kadena’s growth.

Kadena has continued plans to scale their blockchain in 2020 and beyond, as they
announced their next major upgrade for 50 braided chains working in parallel.
Expected throughput will exceed 1 million transactions per second. Additionally,
the company expects to announce a licensed cryptocurrency exchange for
officially trading the KDA coin in the United States before the end of the year.
Kadena (KDA) was identified earlier this year as one of several cryptocurrencies
under consideration by Coinbase and other leading exchanges.

**About Kadena**

Kadena provides the world’s fastest hybrid blockchain platform, consisting of
the only sharded and scalable layer-1 PoW public network, the Kuro permissioned
blockchain, and the Pact smart contract language. Kadena solves the scaling
challenges of Bitcoin and the security issues of Ethereum. Kadena’s founders
created JP Morgan’s first blockchain and worked at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Kadena is live with partners including Cosmos and USCF (a
$3 billion fund). For more information, visit
[www.kadena.io](http://www.kadena.io) or follow @kadena_io on Twitter.
