---
title:
  Kadena Embraces DeFi with Multi-protocol Decentralized Exchange Kadenaswap
description:
  Kadena, the first blockchain technology company to come out of J.P. Morgan’s
  Blockchain Center for Excellence, today announced a multi-protocol
  decentralized exchange (DEX) named Kadenaswap. Kadenaswap will utilize
  Kadena’s 20-chain sharded and scalable layer-1 public blockchain with 480,000
  transactions per second capability. The company also announced community
  onboarding initiatives such as partnering with ZelCore on full-node
  incentivization for miners, offering a free month of gas during October 2020,
  and launching a developer engagement program.
menu: Kadena Embraces DeFi with Multi-protocol Decentralized Exchange Kadenaswap
label:
  Kadena Embraces DeFi with Multi-protocol Decentralized Exchange Kadenaswap
publishDate: 2020-09-29
author: Tony Pham
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_Q1h18cmTzAA4S4BAk5bXFg.webp)

# Kadena Embraces DeFi with Multi-protocol Decentralized Exchange Kadenaswap

_Kadena is also partnering with ZelCore for full-node incentivization, offering
free gas at crypto gas stations, and launching a developer program as additional
community resources_

**NEW YORK, N.Y. — Sept 29, 2020** — Kadena, the first blockchain technology
company to come out of J.P. Morgan’s Blockchain Center for Excellence, today
announced a multi-protocol decentralized exchange (DEX) named Kadenaswap.
Kadenaswap will utilize Kadena’s 20-chain sharded and scalable layer-1 public
blockchain with 480,000 transactions per second capability. The company also
announced community onboarding initiatives such as partnering with ZelCore on
full-node incentivization for miners, offering a free month of gas during
October 2020, and launching a developer engagement program.

As DeFi continues to grow by billions each month, the fundamental problems of
Ethereum are breaking platforms and sending developers scrambling. As Ethereum
is currently the infrastructure for the majority of DeFi activity, it is
buckling under the strain with gas prices soaring to $99 per transaction.
Non-DeFi applications have been crowded out and are unable to operate
sustainably. Recent hacks of Balancer, Bzx, and dForce, with losses in the tens
of millions of dollars, highlight the crippling security difficulties that
developers face with Ethereum’s smart contract language Solidity.

In searching for a solution to these problems, major DeFi projects are looking
at alternative blockchain platforms, including “CeFi,” which leverages
centralized exchanges’ scalability. There are also layer-2 networks, which push
transactions off-chain and can raise the centralization concerns seen in the
Lightning Network. Taking a different approach, Kadenaswap instead leverages
Kadena’s multi-chain scalability to keep the “De” in DeFi by scaling on the base
layer, using decentralized bridge technology in Pact for access to major
protocols, no matter what chain they originate on.

“Ethereum made DeFi possible, but congestion and high gas prices threaten the
sustainability of the DeFi experiment just as it is poised to skyrocket,” said
Kadena Co-founder and President Stuart Popejoy. “Kadenaswap’s support for
multiple protocols and the ability to scale across the Kadena public multi-chain
network will provide a much-needed, fully decentralized alternative to ‘CeFi’ on
centralized exchanges and off-chain layer-2 solutions. Combined with community
efforts like our developer program launch and free gas campaign, Kadenaswap
shows a way forward to mass adoption of DeFi protocols.”

Kadenaswap will leverage the Pact smart contract language to interoperate with
major DeFi protocols and coins such as BTC, CELO, DAI, DOT, LINK, and ETH. It
will also launch in stages, beginning with the creation of native decentralized
bridges to Ethereum as well as other networks such as Cosmos and Polkadot.
Kadena’s founders bring proven financial and technical expertise from building
J.P. Morgan’s first blockchain and previously working at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC). Additionally, as the first layer-1 multi-protocol
DEX, Kadenaswap will create opportunities for automated market makers (AMMs) to
balance liquidity across networks. Toward this end, a governance token named
KDAX is under consideration to allow stakeholders to participate in setting
incentives and other mechanisms. The first stage of Kadenaswap, which will
include major components such as bridges, ERC-20 wrapped tokens, etc. will go
live in Q4 of this year. Additional details can be found in the release of the
company’s Q4 2020 roadmap next month.

![](/assets/blog/2020/1_qrxABmn5R_6xGQpz3djmQQ.webp)

To increase the ease of building applications on Kadena’s blockchain, whose
production-ready scalability ensures low gas fees, the company is offering
developers one month of free gas during October 2020. The month of free gas is
accompanied by the launch of Kadena’s developer engagement program; visit the
[developer site](https://www.kadena.io/developers) for more information.

ZelCore, the preferred 3rd party wallet recommended for the KDA token, is
partnering with Kadena to provide full-node incentivization for miners. On
ZelCore’s Flux platform, full node operators can receive incentives in KDA. This
is a new resource to members of the community that would *otherwise want to mine
via GPU. *Building upon crypto gas stations, along with a month of free gas,
full node operations are the latest benefit for the Kadena community.

DeFi has emerged as a potential game changer for blockchain, increasing adoption
and attracting new participation with cryptocurrency. Kadena looks forward to
contributing to the DeFi ecosystem in Q4 and beyond with this announcement of
the Kadenaswap DEX, full-node incentivization for miners, one free month of gas,
and the developer engagement program.

**About Kadena**

Kadena provides the world’s fastest hybrid blockchain platform, consisting of
the only sharded and scalable layer-1 PoW public network, the Kuro permissioned
blockchain, and the Pact smart contract language. Kadena solves the scaling
challenges of Bitcoin and the security issues of Ethereum. Kadena’s founders
created J.P. Morgan’s first blockchain and worked at the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Kadena is live with partners including USCF (a $3 billion
fund) and leading DeFi projects. For more information, visit
[www.kadena.io](http://www.kadena.io) or follow @kadena_io on Twitter.
