---
title: Between the Blocks Randy Daal
description:
  Welcome to Kadena’ Personnel Series, where we showcase some of the most
  brilliant and talented minds behind Kadena! Since its inception in 2016,
  Kadena has continuously pushed the boundaries of innovation, being the only
  Layer 1 Proof-of-Work blockchain that has solved the Blockchain Trilemma.
  Kadena’s extraordinary achievements would not be possible without the hard
  work, visions and talent of its team members.
menu: Between the Blocks Randy Daal
label: Between the Blocks Randy Daal
publishDate: 2022-10-19
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

## Between the Blocks: Randy Daal

![It’s time to take a deep dive with Randy Daal, Kadena’s Developer Experience Lead, about his past, present, and time at Kadena!](/assets/blog/1_bwSQxDBogmkeytcc8tmMQw.webp)

Welcome to Kadena’ Personnel Series, where we showcase some of the most
brilliant and talented minds behind Kadena! Since its inception in 2016, Kadena
has continuously pushed the boundaries of innovation, being the only Layer 1
Proof-of-Work blockchain that has solved the Blockchain Trilemma. Kadena’s
extraordinary achievements would not be possible without the hard work, visions
and talent of its team members.

Today, we will be taking a deep dive with **Randy Daal**, Kadena’s Developer
Experience Lead. We will be exploring his past experience, his passions and
hobbies, and his journey with Kadena.

### Can you give a brief overview about your career experience prior to Kadena?

I started my career as a Java developer for a large Dutch Airline company. After
3 years, I found my passion in front-end development. I began working for
several large companies in the Netherlands and built many large-scale
applications in different domains. I also started a new front-end consultancy
company called Up-Front, which later merged with Frontmen, where my team and I
grew the company to over 120 front-end developers over the course of a few
years. Frontmen became the leading front-end consultancy company in the
Netherlands and was featured as
“[The Top 10 Start-Ups to Work for in the Netherlands 2019](https://www.cnbc.com/2019/09/04/linkedin-top-start-ups-to-work-for-in-the-netherlands.html).”

### How did you get into the world of web3 and crypto?

I started trading crypto in 2017, but I was originally introduced to the concept
in 2015 when a couple of friends started mining several altcoins. I also have
friends who always wanted me to do more in this industry and help them build
their projects, but they could never convince me…that is, until I met and spoke
with Will.

### Who introduced you to Kadena?

Much to my surprise (and delight), Will reached out to me on Discord and
informed me that he was looking for someone who could help Kadena with its
front-end development and its community. When WIll explained to me the vision of
Kadena, the tech behind it, as well as the team members working here, he
triggered my interest.

After the call with Will, I spoke to several other bright minds working at
Kadena, including Doug, Anastasia, and Stuart. Suffice to say, talking to the
team sealed the deal for me. I always want to work with intelligent people, and
there is no shortage of intelligent minds at Kadena.

### What has your journey at Kadena been like and what have you learned?

My first two months were mainly getting up to speed and addressing what the pain
points are when developing apps on Kadena. I also spent a lot of time talking to
the community to understand their needs.

We are currently in the making of an incredible dream team and are working hard
to build the best developer experience for Kadena, especially
[Kadena.js](https://github.com/kadena-community/kadena.js). We have Hee Kyun,
who is really bright and thoroughly understands our smart contract language
Pact. There’s Linda, our full-stack developer who comes from a Haskell
background and brings a lot of domain knowledge to the team. Then we have
Albert, who leads our core Kadena.js functionality and is a TypeScript wizard.
Lastly, we have our new hires Tasos and Ashwin. Tasos brings a wealth of lead
developer knowledge to Kadena and provides fresh new insights into experiences
from other platforms, while Ashwin is a senior engineer who has worked in
several large companies and has extensive experience in building top-notch
applications.

As you can imagine, I am pretty proud of this all-star team, and they make me
highly bullish.

I also learned the importance of listening and communicating with the community;
in the end, we are building for the community and they teach us how to be
better. We need them to help us as much as we need to help them.

### Where do you see yourself in five years?

For sure, I’ll stay in cryptography and blockchain as I genuinely believe in the
technology and the solutions it can offer. My colleague, John Wiegley, CTO of
Kadena, came up with a mission statement: “Making crypto and blockchain
technology useful for society.”

This is a mission statement that I can genuinely connect with, and see myself
pursuing this mission for the next 5 years.

### What is your vision for the future of Kadena?

A really secure blockchain that is easy to build upon with the safest smart
contract language in the industry. Pact will play a huge role in the future of
our company in getting mainstream adoption.

### What other fun and exciting things do you do when you aren’t architecting front-end magic?

I have 3 kids, so being a dad is a massive part of my life. Doing fun stuff with
them and my girlfriend is maybe what I enjoy most.

I also play sports, particularly baseball and basketball. I have played baseball
for a significant part of my life, and being part of several dutch national
youth teams is what formed my competitiveness. I still have yet to play ball
with my fellow Kadenians.

I also enjoy watching movies, TV series, and documentaries.

However, perhaps the one thing I’m most passionate about is traveling with my
girlfriend and kids. I can’t go without seeing the wonders of the world, so I
always try to go to places I haven’t been to before. This is something I’m
pretty infamous for in my time at Kadena. So if you have some tips on places we
Kadenians should definitely travel to, please reach out to me.

We hope that you enjoyed getting to know Randy on a more personal level, and be
sure to keep up with Randy by following his
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/Randynamic_4) and
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/randydaal/?originalSubdomain=nl)!

.
