---
title: Build Games For a Blockchain Future With Kadena
description:
  Ever since I was a little boy, I have always loved games. I spent my 5th-grade
  summer mapping the Dungeons of Skara Brae in Bard’s Tale on an Apple IIGS.
  Later I graduated to World of Warcraft on PC. Although my love for gaming
  never waned, I ended up working in finance. When I had the opportunity to
  change career paths, a dream came true. I joined Turbine, the video game
  developer behind Lord of the Rings Online, Dungeons and Dragons Online, and
  others.
menu: Build Games For a Blockchain Future With Kadena
label: Build Games For a Blockchain Future With Kadena
publishDate: 2022-03-18
author: Dan Wiggins
layout: blog
---

![](/assets/blog/1_OKw9Caus7pvqToPXwLIG1g.webp)

## Build Games For a Blockchain Future With Kadena

By Dan Wiggins, Head of Gaming, Kadena Eco

Ever since I was a little boy, I have always loved games. I spent my 5th-grade
summer mapping the Dungeons of Skara Brae in _Bard’s Tale_ on an Apple IIGS.
Later I graduated to _World of Warcraft_ on PC.

Although my love for gaming never waned, I ended up working in finance. When I
had the opportunity to change career paths, a dream came true. I joined Turbine,
the video game developer behind _Lord of the Rings Online_, _Dungeons and
Dragons Online_, and others.

In 2008 Turbine made a risky pivot and transitioned the business model from paid
subscription (prevalent business model for MMOs) to free-2-play. Turbine was one
of the first western developers to make this transformative change, which has
become the industry standard.

Shortly after making the transition, the number of players on Turbine games
increased, and customer acquisition cost decreased. Although revenue per user
was less, absolute revenue went way up thanks to the audience growth. Most
importantly, the games’ communities were all extremely healthy thanks to an
influx of players. As the community grew, engagement and retention increased,
and the studio could rationalize investing in live content, which took the
company to the next level.

Turbine was acquired in 2010 by Warner Bros for $160 million. I searched for the
next innovation in gaming and found my way to Zynga, an early leader in social
games — games you could play on social networks like Facebook. I had the
gratifying job of finding the world’s best video game developers and convincing
them to join the company and build on this new platform. I spoke with the
creatives behind _Age of Empires_, _Civilization_, _Thief_, _Ultima_,
_Wolfenstein_, and many more. It was surreal chatting with the creatives behind
the favorite games of my childhood, and then watching them succeed on a new
platform.

**Web3: an exhilarating new design space**

I started investigating crypto in 2017. Virtual currency? Made sense. I had
spent more money on [IGE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IGE) than my World of
Warcraft subscription. But it was not possible to build consumer applications.
Fast forward to 2022: we’re transitioning from protocols to polygons, and
developers can build consumer experiences. Web3 feels similar to social games in
2009 or mobile games back in 2010.

If you squint and imagine, you can start to see the types of experiences enabled
by blockchain. It is definitely not all figured out. There are very few other
products from which to glean “inspiration.” Depending on your temperament, the
new ambiguity of this fast-evolving design space is intimidating or exciting. At
the very least, I can promise it will be more interesting than working on the
fifth iteration of a large console franchise or grinding on KPIs to support
performance mobile user acquisition investments.

Even cynics might agree that embracing a new gaming frontier can pay off. I
remember the skeptical questions from traditional game developers when I
proposed they make a social or mobile game, ribbing from guildmates when I told
them what I did, with Reddit thread and journalists eviscerating F2P games. But
there were 10 million daily active users happily playing Farmville on Facebook.
And on mobile, I watched in a few short years the definition of a successful
title go from $5k in revenue per day, to $50k to $500K.

Start building now. You will learn, and that knowledge will compound. Find the
right partner to help you get ramped up quickly. Being early in Web 3.0 will
garner mindshare from your platform partner and the community. And just like in
early social and mobile, small innovative teams will build category-defining
titles.

**Rally cry for game builders: Kadena Eco is here for you**

It’s been just two weeks since I’ve joined Kadena. But already, my background in
gaming and partnerships has inspired great conversations with game developers
who’ve decided to start up on Kadena given the insights I’ve been able to share
about why Kadena Eco is the right community for builders.

In weeks and months to come, I look forward to helping Kadena, and its gaming
partners, think through how to design for on-chain environments while fielding
community feedback along the way, so we can build mass market entertainment
experiences. The innovation the Kadena community provides will fuel mainstream
adoption of Web3, Defi, and NFTs, which will benefit everyday people all over
the world. Together, the Kadena Eco community, along with the greater Web3
community, will build the next generation of blockchain-based games. I hope
you’re right there with us.

Ready to get started with Kadena Eco? Here’s how:
[https://kadena.io/eco/](https://kadena.io/eco/).
