---
title: Kadena Telegram AMA with Binance Exchange, May 3 2022 Transcript
description:
  Welcome to a special AMA with the Kadena team! It is my pleasure to introduce
  to you Stuart Popejoy, @SirlensAlot, who is the Kadena CEO. Joining him is
  Doug Beardsley, @mightybyte, Kadena’s Director of Engineering!
menu: Kadena Telegram AMA with Binance Exchange
label: Kadena Telegram AMA with Binance Exchange
publishDate: 2022-05-04
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

## Kadena Telegram AMA with Binance Exchange, May 3 2022 Transcript

### Opening Remarks

**Quake (Binance):** Helloooooo Binancians!!!!! Welcome to a special AMA with
the Kadena team! It is my pleasure to introduce to you Stuart Popejoy,
@SirlensAlot, who is the Kadena CEO. Joining him is Doug Beardsley, @mightybyte,
Kadena’s Director of Engineering!

@SirLensAlot and @mightybyte, Thank you for joining us today! Would you please
give us a brief introduction about yourselves and share a quick overview about
Kadena?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Thank you and thanks to the Binance community for
having us!! Hi, I’m Stuart! I’m the CEO of Kadena, and before that, I built the
blockchain team at JP Morgan, been in tech for 25 years, and love blockchain and
smart contracts. I’m the author of the Pact smart contract language — my
cofounder Will is the inventor of the Chainweb scalable POW protocol used by
Kadena.

**Quake (Binance):** We are hyped!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Happy to be here! I’ve been in the software
business for close to 19 years. Over that time I’ve worked in defense, security,
finance, and in a few startups building frontend and backend web apps. I’ve been
programming Haskell professionally for 12 years which is what led me to meet the
Kadena team. Now I’m Kadena’s Director of Engineering and love working with the
talented team of engineers we have.

**Quake (Binance):** As we can see you both come from very extensive and
knowledgeable backgrounds. Bringing vast experience in a fast-growing industry.
Can we get a brief introduction regarding Kadena?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Kadena is all about bringing real-world scalability
to blockchain, DeFi, NFTs, and smart contracts, by leveraging the proven
unbeatable security and reliability of Proof-of-Work with real scalability as
the only sharded PoW blockchain, and offering a full solution for
industrial-scale apps: fast finality via our Kuro permissioned blockchain, and
safe and secure apps with Pact, our smart contract language.

This has allowed developers to build in record time, which is why we have
launched DEXes, tokens, and NFT exchanges since going live in January 2020. Our
team is unmatched, including luminaries like Stuart Haber
[[one of the most cited author on the Bitcoin Whitepaper](https://www.vice.com/en/article/j5nzx4/what-was-the-first-blockchain)]
who provided critical skills in developing the multi-chain security model and
who now advises on crypto interaction protocols in Pact. Kadena is the only
blockchain that can settle all the world’s assets and is the future of digital
value.

**Quake (Binance):** Simply put. I will say WOW! Thank you @SirLensAlot and
@mightybyte for such a great introduction! Binancians! Do not hesitate to learn
more about Kadena, expanding your knowledge base can be highly beneficial as
they have much to offer. I invite you to check out these links below. Follow the
team on Twitter and join in on conversations about Kadena via their Telegram
channel.

**Website: [https://www.kadena.io/](https://www.kadena.io/)**

**Telegram: [https://t.me/kadena_io](https://t.me/kadena_io)**

**Twitter: [https://twitter.com/kadena_io](https://twitter.com/kadena_io)**

**Reddit: [https://www.reddit.com/r/kadena/](https://www.reddit.com/r/kadena/)**

**Linkedin:
[https://www.linkedin.com/company/kadena-llc](https://www.linkedin.com/company/kadena-llc)**

**Discord: [https://discord.io/kadena](https://discord.io/kadena)**

Let’s jump right into the first segment of today’s AMA session. Kadena has a lot
of content to share with you today!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** We got a rapidly growing community of builders to
exchange ideas with!

### Why POW over POS

**Quake (Binance):** Surround yourself with like-minded individuals and achieve
success! @SirLensAlot and @mightybyte if you are ready, here is our first
question for you here today. We know that Kadena is a PoW blockchain. Why has
Kadena chosen POW over other Consensus Protocols like POS?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** We chose POW because it’s the most battle-tested
consensus mechanism. Scalable POW means a Proof-of-Work blockchain like Bitcoin
or Ethereum that can always handle an ever-increasing transaction load by
increasing capacity. We launched in 2019 with 10 “braided chains” and in August
2020 scaled to 20, doubling throughput without using any additional hash power.
We can scale without limit, bounded only by bandwidth: 100, 1000, or 100,000
chains. So for your hash rate, you’re getting ever-increased efficiency as
utilization grows. All this, while increasing the already proven security of
Proof of Work blockchains!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** First of all, the claim that PoW doesn’t scale in
terms of energy/transaction fundamentally misunderstands the way PoW works. More
transactions don’t require meaningfully more energy. Just because Bitcoin uses a
lot of energy doesn’t mean that it has to. Back in 2009 when Bitcoin started it
had the same transaction capacity but it used WAY less electricity.

Secondly, if you’re absolutely dead-set on looking at the flawed metric of
energy/transaction, we win there because we can scale. As Bitcoin uses more and
more energy the number of transactions it can process stays the same. But with
Kadena, we can scale up our transaction capacity. So we can tap into energy
efficiency that the other networks can’t.

### Importance of Pact

**Quake (Binance):** Always break the barrier ahead. Strive for better, at all
times! Having discussed a little bit about POW and the blockchain, may I ask
what can you say about the importance of Kadena’s smart contract Pact and how it
differs from other smart contract languages?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Sure! Love to talk about Pact :)

When Will and I started Kadena, we researched every smart contract technology
before deciding to write our own smart contract language: the existing solutions
for smart contracts could not provide the necessary safety we felt was needed to
bring blockchain mainstream. We designed Pact with safety and security first in
mind, and that has proven to be even more important today. Compared to other
smart contract languages, Pact makes it both easier for builders to quickly
develop dapps, while making it impossible to write the kinds of bugs that have
cost billions of dollars in exploits. In addition to safety and security, Pact
was designed to be human-readable. Users can go onto Kadena’s blockchain and be
able to read the exact human-readable code that their transactions are
executing, a level of security that EVM-based blockchains like Ethereum cannot
provide.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** One of my favorite things about Pact is its formal
verification. This allows devs to guarantee that their code will behave in a
certain way **no matter what the inputs are**. This allows Pact developers to
have confidence that simply cannot be achieved by conventional testing methods.
Last August we did a survey of DeFi hacks and found that over $800 million lost
in hacks could have been saved by Kadena. We created a website called
[https://savedby.kadena.network/](https://savedby.kadena.network/) that
summarizes this information. Most of these hacks would have been prevented just
by using Pact and Kadena with no special coding practices needed!

![Numerous projects could’ve been saved by Pact and Kadena!](/assets/blog/1_mydCLyvarGNvNQBDWEjNDQ.webp)

**Quake (Binance):** It seems Kadena has been tailored towards a due diligence
mentality. Exploring best options and providing solutions towards security,
functionality, and most importantly, TRUST!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Yeah. The only way to build really safe systems in
my opinion is to as much as possible design them so they can’t go wrong. You
can’t rely on humans getting everything right all the time.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** It’s important for decentralization too. Can’t have
decentralization without safety!

### Types of projects building on Kadena

**Quake (Binance):** We are flawed, that is what makes us perfect. We learn, we
adapt, we grow. Fantastic response gentlemen. Let us move onward to the next
question we have for you! As we are discovering new ideas in blockchain, What
are the types of projects currently being developed on Kadena that you are most
excited about? Can you elaborate on the topic for us?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** With our ecosystem growing on all fronts like DeFi,
gaming, infrastructure support, and exchanges, I’m particularly excited about
the NFT projects that are building on Kadena. This is because Kadena has created
a revolutionary new NFT standard called [Marmalade](http://Marmalade.art) that
will allow creators, buyers, and communities to mint their own NFT marketplaces
and participate in NFT ownership and sales without limitation. Users can now
participate in NFT sales never seen before, such as an enforceable royalty
system or fractional ownership of an NFT.

For example, [DNA (Database of Native Assets)](https://www.thedna.tech/) is
using Marmalade to prevent counterfeiting of luxury brands such as Coach,
Supreme, Gucci, etc. By using Kadena’s uniquely strong provenance system, called
“Haber Content Integrity” [named] after research by our advisor Stuart Haber,
companies are able to protect their brand and also reclaim the secondary market.

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** I’m really excited about all the mining-related
projects that are building with/on Kadena. I like to say that proof of work
allows excess hydropower in China to replace an armored truck in Denver,
Colorado. Improving the flexibility of mining infrastructure is key to
accomplishing this. We have been contacted by new ASIC manufacturers, mining
pools, mining hosting companies, and more. These projects are investing
significant capital to make Kadena mining more approachable, efficient, and
energy-friendly.

Proof-of-work crypto projects are in a unique position to speed up worldwide
adoption of green energy infrastructure because they can turn excess energy that
would have gone to waste into productive work **no matter where in the world the
excess energy is located**.

**Quake (Binance):** I am loving this team dynamic! both providing unique
answers! Providing solutions to NFT creators is a necessary tool to bring into
the future. I applaud you. Avoiding third parties can be a highly beneficial
aspect to mass adoption for startup artists and projects. Focusing on what is
important! We have a community of interested miners here at Binance as well!
When listed on the platform our chat was going wild with questions regarding
mining.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Yeah, and having enforceable standards that survive
if you switch NFT marketplaces is one that is important to me as a musician in
my other life :).

**Quake (Binance):** As other methods become increasingly difficult Kadena is
providing real-time green solutions. Absolutely amazing! Great job!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Kadena has been near the top of the list of most
profitable ASIC miners for quite some time now.

### Kadena and blockchain mass adoption

**Quake (Binance):** As we have just mentioned mainstream and mass adoption, my
next question for your team would be to describe to us how Kadena is planning to
bring blockchain to the masses?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** One of the biggest obstacles to crypto transactions
is gas. If your mom wants to do an on-chain swap between BTC and a stable coin,
it’s really painful if she also has to have ETH to do the transaction. Kadena
makes it possible to create
[gas stations](https://medium.com/kadena-io/the-first-crypto-gas-station-is-now-on-kadenas-blockchain-6dc43b4b3836)
that can pay the transaction fees for these transactions autonomously. We are
also working on innovations that have the potential to allow third parties to
grant loans for gas and make a small profit on the transaction. This will
provide new ways for people to earn returns on their crypto holdings while at
the same time making the network easier to use for the more casual users. This
combined with the low gas fees that are enabled by Kadena’s scalability will
make crypto accessible to a completely new part of the market that up to now has
been excluded.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Another initiative that launched early this year is
Kadena Eco, headed by Francesco Melpignano, which will fuel mainstream adoption
of Web3, DeFi, and NFT by adding vital expertise and resources needed to take
the Kadena ecosystem into hypergrowth. While Kadena is the team that supports
the blockchain protocol and provides infrastructure support for builders and
developers, Kadena Eco takes these innovative technological advancements and
brings them to blockchain leaders, VCs, and acceleration partners to support
startups at all phases! Just recently, Kadena Eco announced a $100M grant
program to turbocharge developers and entrepreneurs building their projects and
ideas on Kadena and innovate with Web2.0 scalability!

**Quake (Binance):** We can all agree with gas being an obstacle, explaining
altered transactions to accommodate gas fee’s can be a nightmare for an
outsider. Facilitating this step feels necessary! Thank you KDA!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Here’s the link to the grant program:
[https://kadena.io/grants/](https://kadena.io/grants/).

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** We want builders to contact us to bring the next
great dapp to Kadena!

### Upcoming milestones and exciting news

**Quake (Binance):** You keep those doors open! The masses are noticing! As my
final question for segment 1. I always enjoy asking a little fan favorite. Can
you share any upcoming roadmap milestones or exciting news in the Kadena
Ecosystem? What should we expect in the future? Binancians WANT TO KNOW!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** … drum roll… Alpha incoming….

**Quake (Binance):** I heard it in my mind. Boom here it comes!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** For a while now I’ve been talking about how I’m
excited about upcoming improvements in our wallet and dapp integration
infrastructure. Things like support for WalletConnect, the ability to sign
multiple transactions at once, etc, which will transform the Kadena wallet
experience and make it so that most of the time you won’t need to care what
chain your coins are on. We are making really significant progress in this area
and you will start to see some of the improvements before the end of Q2. We are
also working on making it easier for builders to get up to speed with building
on Kadena and teaching them how to take advantage of its unique features to make
blockchain technology safer and easier to use than ever before.

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** If 2021 was the year where the world realized that
Kadena had solved the trilemma, bringing something truly unique — a scalable,
safe and fast POW blockchain platform for builders — **2022 is the year of the
Kadena ecosystem which has kicked off with a bang with the Kadena Eco fund and
the
[$100MM builder grant program](https://twitter.com/kadena_io/status/1517096122182942720?s=20&t=F03RzqN2LB6n-agbjLWqVQ)**.
This year will see the launch of the first truly scalable DeFi and Lending
platforms as builders leverage Pact’s features to scale their dapps to new
heights of usability and performance, while our upcoming bridge to innovative
Cosmos chains like Terra will see our vision of Kadena as the sole “settlement
chain” for all of crypto become real. Come get involved and build the future on
Kadena!

**Quake (Binance):** That was informative and interesting reading material!
Absolutely amazing job. Thank you @SirLensAlot and @mightybyte!

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Great questions! Always a pleasure to talk about
the exciting stuff

**Quake (Binance):** Chat, be sure to read if you missed anything! Make sure to
follow Kadena. Engagement is wild in here! Great crowd, you brought with you!

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Kadenians what’s up! Woop woop!

**Quake (Binance):** Have they earned the rewards segment with all this crazy
engagement?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Quiz time now!

**Quake (Binance):** Yes! Let's get it going!

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Let’s roll!

## Kadena Quiz

**Quake (Binance):** We will post our google form for 5 minutes as I go over the
questions with Kadena team with you here! So, Stuart, let me know what the first
quiz question is!

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Yessir! The first question is:

Q: Which of these wallets can be used to store $KDA:

A: Metamask, B: Chainweaver, C: X-Wallet, D: Trust Wallet, E: Zelcore

**Quake (Binance):** Nice one! How about question #2? Can you please share with
us?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Second question… Q2. Which of the following is not
a strategic component of Kadena Eco?

A: Incubator, B: Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO), C: Grant programs,
D: Venture fund

**Quake (Binance):** Responses are coming in hot. Some have followed you
closely. They know. Can you please share with us question #3?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Third question… Q3: How many chains and TPS can
Kadena scale to?

A: 30 Chains and 300 TPS, B: 20 Chains and 480,000 TPS, C: An infinite number of
chains, and TPS D: 100 Chains and 10,000 TPS

**Quake (Binance):** How about question 4, please?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Fourth question… Q4: What is the name of Kadena’s
NFT standard?

A: Rarible, B: Marmalade, C: Kaden-Art, D: Kadena Eco

**Quake (Binance):** Rolls right off the tongue vocally. Genius. And for our
final question! May you share for the crowd?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Fifth question… Q5: Which of the following is NOT a
feature of Kadena’s smart contract language, Pact?

A: Human readability, B: Formal verification, C: Turing completeness, D:
Upgradable contracts

**Quake (Binance):** We are all closed up ladies and gentlemen! Participation
levels are high. Thank you Kadena and thank you Binancians for being here today!

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Binance force is STRONG!

**Quake (Binance):** let's share the answers so they can then make you sweat
with a bunch of LIVE Q&A questions!!

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** And the answers are ……..

Answer 1: Chainweaver, X-Wallet, Zelcore

Answer 2: B. DAO

Answer 3: C. An infinite number of chains and TPS

Answer 4: B. Marmalade

Answer 5: C. Turing completeness

## Community Questions

**Quake (Binance):** Fantastic. Thank you. As we move on to Segment 3. Please
take the time to think of some good questions, which will underline quality and
uniqueness. We will unmute the channel for a few minutes for the first round and
Kadena will select 5 questions per round!

**Community Question 1:** Smart contracts are prone to failure, and many
projects fall victim to it, costing user funds and discrediting projects. How
reliable and secure are your smart contracts? Did you test it with either party?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** We have designed our smart contract language Pact
in a way that makes it possible to completely eliminate whole categories of
bugs. Also, Pact puts human-readable contract code on chain which makes
everything much more transparent. Our formal verification system brings
unmatched techniques to people to prove that their code is correct. I could go
on and on…

**Community Question 2**: Will you as a private person be able to use Marmalade
to mint and sell NFTs?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Yes! Not only that, with Marmalade you can “mint a
marketplace” — design your own economic rules like royalties, and nobody can
possibly rug you as a creator!

**Community Question 3:** I read on your site that Kadena offers a no-cost
transaction, can you explain more about the no-cost transaction model?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** This is something to clear up: gas on Kadena is
low-cost, and most importantly, predictable and can be subsidized by the dapp so
the user never ever has to deal with gas. But gas itself is an important feature
of a smart-contract blockchain to make sure people play fair and don’t use up
too much of the blockchain resources. With Kadena you just don’t have to worry
about success being your enemy by driving prices through the roof — because
**DAPPS CAN SCALE ON KADENA**!
[**The Future of Multichain** *Building on a Multi-Chain Protocol*medium.com](https://medium.com/kadena-io/the-future-of-multichain-828a2547b697)

**Community Question 4:** What essential recommendations would you give to a Web
2.0 programmer to start a Web 3.0 programmer specifically in Kadena, of course?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Be open to learning new things. The only way we can
innovate in the blockchain space is if we are willing to make changes to the
status quo. Kadena has a lot of new ideas. We know that they will require people
to learn new things. We very carefully designed things so that developers are
getting a lot of power and safety as a result.

**Community Question 5:** You have very strong partners behind you. Could this
be the most important factor that brings more investors to the project? Strong
partners and a great team that believes in the project…

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** The Kadena Eco team is super high powered, with
Paul Hsu coming from gaming, crypto, and VC; our own Francesco Melpignano
leading it up, and a host of other experts like Dan Wiggins with a huge
background in gaming. It’s all about partners!

**Community Question 6:** What are the words that motivate the Kadena team?
Success, popularity etc?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** We just really believe in the transformative power
of blockchain, crypto, decentralization, and community, and want to see it WIN
with massive mainstream adoption. Haters don’t get it: **crypto is really about
community and empowering people, and that’s what gets us up in the morning is to
make it real for everybody.**

**Community Question 7:** What type of projects are currently being reviewed by
Kadena Eco?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Just the other day someone announced a new mining
hosting company that wants to make it easier for average folks to run ASIC
miners.

**Community Question 8:** How can I build a gas station?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** It’s as simple as a single transfer:
[https://explorer.chainweb.com/mainnet/chain/1/block/-c50pruuuIb2MwCl63Zks1KZDedy2Kb7W2F5Di7U9DQ/txs](https://explorer.chainweb.com/mainnet/chain/1/block/-c50pruuuIb2MwCl63Zks1KZDedy2Kb7W2F5Di7U9DQ/txs).
Learn more about gas stations
[here](https://medium.com/kadena-io/the-first-crypto-gas-station-is-now-on-kadenas-blockchain-6dc43b4b3836).

**Community Question 9:** How the developers and entrepreneurs can get access to
the $100M grant program?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** You can learn more and apply for a grant at
[https://kadena.io/grants/](https://kadena.io/grants/).

**Community Question 10:** Can you tell us how did you come up with the idea of
Kadena? Have you been influenced by any special moment or story behind it?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** My cofounder Will and I started JP Morgan’s
blockchain group in 2014, and we got to talk to everybody in the space
(including Vitalik :) ). We really felt that scalability and safety were going
to be critical for businesses and individuals to want to participate. That was
back in 2016 but it still motivates us today!

**Community Question 11 (Kadena):** Thank you @SirLensAlot and @mightybyte for
your time. I applaud you for your innovations on crypto scalability.

1. Considering the problems in the crypto-space, what are your thoughts on
   cross-chain services?

2. Will Kadena also facilitate cross-chain transactions in the future?

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Tx space in a global blockchain is a scarce
resource. Therefore I absolutely see the future being multi-chain. Kadena is in
a better position than just about any other project to operate well in a
multi-chain world because Kadena itself is multi-chain! If you’re using KDA,
you’re using multi-chain technology. It’s built into Kadena from the ground up.

**Community Question 12:** What does Stuart Haber do at Kadena?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Stuart Haber is our cryptography and technology
advisor, for everything from Pact core technology (Marmalade content integrity)
to the Chainweb security analysis by Gauntlet
([https://medium.com/gauntlet-networks/analysis-of-kadenas-public-blockchain-protocol-31c66347e32e](https://medium.com/gauntlet-networks/analysis-of-kadenas-public-blockchain-protocol-31c66347e32e)).
Stuart Haber is also the most-cited author in the Bitcoin Whitepaper! He’s a
legend!

**Community Question 13:** Let’s say we are starting to hit higher gas fees —
how long does it take for the chainweb to expand to more chains and therefore
lower the gas fee?

**Doug Beardsley:** It takes some engineering work, but we already doubled the
capacity of our network from 10 chains to 20 chains about 8 months after we
launched. So we’ve already developed and tested the approach, so it will be
easier to do it again in the future.

**Community Question 14:** So it has the capability for infinite chains which
leads to infinite TPS, my question is how projects can be linked to a chain and
how users can easily understand which chain to use without any confusion?

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Great question, the right answer is a user should
never have to care about what chain they are on. This is what is happening now
in 2022, see this article on how a swapper could swap across chains without even
knowing it :)
[https://medium.com/kadena-io/the-future-of-multichain-828a2547b697](https://medium.com/kadena-io/the-future-of-multichain-828a2547b697)

**Quake (Binance):** It has been great to have you, @SirLensAlot, and
@mightybyte with us today to talk more about Kadena’s business. The community
has responded well to your presence here!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** Thanks so much for having us!

**Stuart Popejoy (Kadena):** Totally! Binancians and Kadenians UNITE!

**Quake (Binance):** Absolute delight to have hosted you!

**Doug Beardsley (Kadena):** For technical tweets about blockchain and Kadena,
follow me on Twitter.
[https://twitter.com/BlockchainDoug](https://twitter.com/BlockchainDoug)!

**Quake (Binance):** Thank you chat for your time! Last but not least, thank you
to the wonderful team at Kadena!

That concludes the AMA. If you are interested in reading the AMA directly from
Telegram, feel free to join Binance’s Telegram and view the discussion starting
[here](https://t.me/binanceexchange/15344705). To get the latest announcements
about Kadena’s progress follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/kadena_io),
[Discord](https://t.co/VK1m2oyh2L?amp=1),
[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/kadena/),
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/kadena-llc), and
[Telegram](https://t.me/kadena_io).
