---
title: Proof of Work vs Proof of Stake, Kadena’s Advantages Explained
description:
  Kadena is currently the only blockchain on a proof-of-work model that can
  expand to handle global transaction volumes. This makes it scalable, a
  difficult feat to accomplish. This forms the building blocks of Kadena’s
  ecosystem, verifying transactions in a more resilient manner that gives
  developers room to flex up capacity when their projects take off.
menu: Proof of Work vs Proof of Stake, Kadena’s Advantages Explained
label: Proof of Work vs Proof of Stake, Kadena’s Advantages Explained
publishDate: 2022-12-08
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

## Proof of Work vs Proof of Stake, Kadena’s Advantages, Explained

![](/assets/blog/1_JzSicHPhcWHotlKMuXQTlA.webp)

[Kadena](https://kadena.io/) is currently the only blockchain on a proof-of-work
model that can expand to handle global transaction volumes. This makes it
scalable, a difficult feat to accomplish. This forms the building blocks of
Kadena’s ecosystem, verifying transactions in a more resilient manner that gives
developers room to flex up capacity when their projects take off.

With a dynamic design that self-adjusts according to the amount of computing
miners are using to mine blocks, Kadena is similar to Bitcoin’s design. What
distinguishes Kadena from Bitcoin is that it has 20 chains of blocks, versus
Bitcoin’s one chain, and Kadena can add more chains according to demand. Bitcoin
was not structured this way and is, therefore, unable to scale to the capacity
of Kadena’s chains.

Proof of Work is also more battle-tested. Bitcoin has weathered technological
attacks, regulatory risks and market volatility since 2009 and hasn’t suffered a
catastrophic shutdown.

Here are 3 reasons why developers should build on Proof of Work.

### 1. It is decentralized.

There is no one authority that can control or cancel your transaction. While the
proof-of-work model has been criticized as using arbitrary amounts of energy,
this model strengthens the resilience of your network. This structure prevents
your project from being subjected to validators whose self-interest could
conflict with yours.

### 2. The alternative proof-of stake isn’t actually scalable.

“Proof of Stake is fast until it’s congested,” said Kadena founder and president
Will Martino in a recent tweet. In September, Ethereum moved to a proof-of-stake
model that gave it a temporary reprieve in capacity, but that capacity could
still be constrained when volume increases.

### 3. There is less risk of having to comply with a more expansive regulatory regime.

Ethereum’s transition to a proof-of-stake model also promptly caused analysts
and investors to consider the risk that it could trigger securities laws.
Cryptocurrencies and brokers that allow holders to ‘stake’ their coins could
lead courts to consider these assets as securities. Intermediaries that offer
‘staking’ services could be seen in a similar vein as lenders.

In short, Kadena’s network can increase its capacity to handle high volume
throughput as needed by combining multiple parallel blockchains to achieve a
Proof-of-Work consensus. The result enables developers to build on and reap all
the benefits of a Proof-of-Work blockchain, as Kadena has effectively solved the
Blockchain Trilemma of decentralization, security, and scalability.
