---
title: Kadena Eco Welcomes New Strategic Advisor
description:
  We are excited to announce that Scott Barker, partner and co-founder of
  GTMfund, has recently been inaugurated to the Kadena family as one of Kadena’s
  new strategic advisors. Scott brings with him a diverse background in sales,
  go-to-marketing and an extensive network of relationships that can support
  Kadena’s rapid hypergrowth and mass adoption plans.
menu: Kadena Eco Welcomes New Strategic Advisor
label: Kadena Eco Welcomes New Strategic Advisor
publishDate: 2022-09-22
author: Kadena
authorId: kadena
layout: blog
---

# Kadena Eco Welcomes New Strategic Advisor

We are excited to announce that Scott Barker, partner and co-founder of
[GTMfund](https://www.gtmfund.com/), has recently been inaugurated to the Kadena
family as one of Kadena’s new strategic advisors. Scott brings with him a
diverse background in sales, go-to-marketing and an extensive network of
relationships that can support Kadena’s rapid hypergrowth and mass adoption
plans.

Today, we’ll be engaging in an insightful Q&A with Scott regarding his past and
present experiences, his thoughts and strategies on driving adoption to the
Kadena ecosystem, and what assets and value he will be bringing to the table for
Kadena.

### Can you describe your past experiences and accomplishments that led you to become who you are today?

After trying my hands at entrepreneurship, I’ve spent the majority of my
professional life as a go-to-market operator in B2B SaaS. I started in Fintech,
moved to the digital asset management space before jumping into a media company,
a start-up called [Sales Hacker](https://www.saleshacker.com/). In all my roles
I’ve been tasked with generating the GTM (go-to-market) strategy and executing
that strategy to increase revenue, pipeline and partnerships.

At Sales Hacker, we built the largest community for B2B revenue professionals in
the world. We built a community of 165,000 B2B sales and marketing professionals
that would come to us for advice on how to generate more revenue using modern
best practices and new technology. We were able to host large-scale conferences
in SF, London and New York before doubling down on our digital network of blogs,
webinars, podcasts and community platforms. We partnered with some of the
fastest growing SaaS companies on the planet like Salesforce, Adobe and Hubspot
before ultimately getting acquired in 2018 by
[Outreach](https://www.outreach.io/), the leader in the Sales Execution
category.

I spent the last four years helping Outreach scale its brand and revenue. In
that time period, went from ~250 employees to ~1500 globally and became the
undisputed leader in the space. Along the way, I was able to build a network of
CROs, CMOs, and VPs of Sales/Marketing/Success at some of the largest technology
companies on the planet and join the advisory boards for a handful of incredible
companies like Postal.io, Pavilion, Esellas, Replayz, Ultrarev and now…Kadena
Eco.

### Can you tell us a bit more about GTMfund?

In January of 2021, I leveraged that network to co-found a venture capital fund
along with my partner, Max Altschuler, called
[GTMfund](https://www.gtmfund.com/). GTMfund is made up of 250 tech executives
who have been there, done that from zero to IPO. We invest in early-stage
technology companies and use our combined GTM knowledge to help them scale.

I started to be aware of (what is now known as) Web3 back in 2017. I began
buying various tokens which led me deeper and deeper down the rabbit hole each
year. The tokens were an interesting way to create wealth but it was the
underlying blockchain technology that really started to excite me — this was the
future.

### What are your philosophy and life goals?

Ultimately my philosophy and goal are pretty simple:

> “I want to spend my life solving interesting problems with interesting people,
> and along the way, I’d like to help as many people as I can.”

It’s a simple ambition but to me, that’s how the flywheel of change moves
forward.

Community and creativity have been the tools that have allowed me to create
change.

### How were you made aware of and what attracted you to Kadena?

Kadena was put on my radar through Joel Woodman, a friend of mine who now sits
on their Business Development team. Having learned about some of the scale
challenges with existing blockchain projects, it immediately piqued my interest.
It was one of those rare Web3 projects that actually got more exciting the more
layers you peeled back. Their focus on scalability and enterprise-grade
infrastructure paired with
[their own smart contract language](./from-haskell-to-pact-my-journey-in-code-toward-a-more-stable-and-secure-environment-for-blockchain-builders-2022-07-01)
seemed like the only way to get mass adoption. Plus the founders built JP
Morgan’s first blockchain and led the SEC’s Crypto Committee.

It was time to pay attention.

That ultimately led to a conversation with Francesco Melpignano, CEO of Kadena
Eco which sealed the deal for me wanting to get involved in Kadena Eco. It’s
rare to find both world-class technology and
[a world-class team](https://kadena.io/about/) backing it all up.

### What do you enjoy about being a Strategic Advisor?

One of the things that energize me most about joining as an Advisor is being
able to act as a bridge between two worlds that are still operating fairly
separately: Web2 and Web3.

There seems to be this interesting view from many companies building in Web3
that they have to do everything differently. They want to start from scratch
particularly when it comes to go-to-market strategy. But from my vantage point,
many of the scale lessons that traditional software companies have learned the
hard way over the last decade are still very relevant. And over time, much of
the talent, builders and operators needed to change the world will come from
Saas companies.

### What is your goal as a Strategic Advisor to Kadena?

My goal is to help bridge those worlds and bring some of the brightest, proven
minds into the Kadena ecosystem.

Here is what Kadenians can expect from my involvement:

1.  Assist in designing Go-To-Market strategy for both the business and
    marketing team

2.  Talent acquisition inbounds for Kadena and ecosystem companies

3.  Network introductions from Web2 space

4.  Institutional fundraising introductions for Kadena Eco

5.  Introduce builders and entrepreneurs to Kadena

6.  Mentor key team members

7.  Helping to build and promote Kadena’s brand

As stated before, my goal is to spend my life solving interesting problems with
interesting people and helping as many people along the way as I can.

Kadena is looking to solve one of the most interesting challenges of our time
and the team they have recruited is the most interesting in the Web3 space.
Kadena Eco will give builders the tools to turn ideas and ambitions into reality
which will help an incredible amount of people.

I am proud to be a Kadenian.

### How can our community keep in touch with you?

Connect with me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ssbarker/) or
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/scottbGTM) and say hello.

Let’s go change the world and build some cool sh\*t together.

## ABOUT KADENA ECO

[Kadena Eco](./kadena-eco-grants-2022-04-21) is an innovation network fueling
mainstream adoption of Web3, DeFi and NFTs. We unite technical founders and
entrepreneurs with the world’s top blockchain leaders, venture capitalists and
acceleration partners to support startups at every phase of their development
journey. By leveraging Kadena’s builder-centric blockchain that delivers Web3
innovation with Web2 usability, Kadena Eco aims to speed the development and
adoption of meaningful applications that benefit everyday people, worldwide.
