---
title: The Story of Kadena’s Proof of Work Blockchain
description:
  Since its inception in 2016, Kadena has continuously innovated and achieved
  tremendous milestones, making it the first and only Layer-1 blockchain that
  has managed to permanently address scalability while preserving the power of
  Proof-of-Work (PoW) security and decentralization. It is the only Layer-1
  blockchain to have solved the Blockchain Trilemma.
menu: The Story of Kadena’s Proof of Work Blockchain
label: The Story of Kadena’s Proof of Work Blockchain
publishDate: 2022-10-13
author: Kadena
layout: blog
---

## The Story of Kadena’s Proof of Work Blockchain

![](/assets/blog/0_slJi3XAk5a2usmEu.png)

Since its inception in 2016, Kadena has continuously innovated and achieved
tremendous milestones, making it the first and only Layer-1 blockchain that has
managed to permanently address scalability while preserving the power of
Proof-of-Work (PoW) security and decentralization. It is the only Layer-1
blockchain to have solved the Blockchain Trilemma. In 2022 alone, Kadena’s list
of feats include but are not limited to: the launch of its Kadena Eco $100
million grant program, the first decentralized gas free exchange; the launch of
its wrapped KDA (wKDA) on the Ethereum network; its token, KDA, being listed on
major exchanges such as Binance, Gate and OKX; and the launch of Marmalade,
Kadena’s NFT platform that offers 100% on-chain transactions, high-quality
provenance, low gas fees, and shared ownership that can span platforms.

Kadena’s success originated with the inspiration of its two founders, Stuart
Popejoy and William Martino, who were driven by the goal of creating a scalable
and secure cryptocurrency.

Popejoy, originally from the Bay Area, has worked in the tech industry since the
1990s. He started his career as a programmer at Apple, and made the move to New
York in 2001 where he spent the next 15 years building trading and routing
systems for brokerages on Wall Street. He joined J.P. Morgan Chase in 2011,
where he developed electronic trading and portfolio strategies and then led the
bank’s new products division, including development in blockchain and smart
contracts.

Throughout his career at J.P. Morgan, Popejoy worked with and became close
friends with his colleague William Martino. Martino originally led the
development of J.P. Morgan’s Blockchain Research Group which invented Juno, a
blockchain prototype for international currency transfers. Prior to J.P. Morgan,
Martino assisted in founding both the Security and Exchange Commission’s Quant
Unit and Distributed Ledger Technology working group.

Together, Popejoy and Martino built a high speed blockchain for the first
iteration of J.P. Morgan’s inaugural digital currency, JPM Coin. Popejoy and
Martino were looking to find ways to make instant transfers of assets between
multiple banks and to offer next-generation treasury services. J.P. Morgan was
not ready to take the plunge into the blockchain world until a couple of years
later.

“Early on, crypto’s path to the mainstream remained unclear, because the
technology wasn’t ready,” said Popejoy in a recent podcast interview. “To some
extent, that holds true today.”

In 2016, Popejoy and Martino left J.P. Morgan — and that was the beginning of
Kadena.

Popejoy and Martino’s goal was to create a scalable cryptocurrency with the
security at the forefront. They brought on advisors such as renowned
cryptographer Stuart Haber, whose work on timestamping helped inspire the
creation of today’s blockchain systems. Along with his colleague, Scott
Stornetta, their research has been cited in the Bitcoin whitepaper by Satoshi
Nakamoto, which outlined the basic structure of Bitcoin’s PoW blockchain.

Haber provided insight to Kadena’s team in the buildout of its smart contract
language, Pact, and the first audit of the Kadena blockchain.

In 2020, Kadena successfully launched its public blockchain along with smart
contract capabilities. Kadena built the first scalable Proof of Work (PoW)
blockchain, which first launched as ten parallel chains running on a single
network. One year later in 2021, the Kadena team scaled to twenty chains. “We
designed it to be able to handle use-cases we saw at J.P. Morgan, but we also
wanted to make it easy enough that anybody, including non-programmers, could
write safe smart contracts in it,” said Popejoy.

The Kadena network can increase its capacity to handle high volume throughput as
needed. What this means is that Kadena is able to combine multiple parallel
blockchains to achieve a PoW consensus, resulting in increasing throughputs and
scalability without compromising decentralization and security, two issues that
Proof of Stake blockchains constantly face.

Today, Kadena is focused on fueling mainstream adoption with the vision of
bringing Kadena’s technology to the masses. In February 2022, Kadena launched
Kadena Eco, an innovation network for technical builders with the primary
objective being to raise ecosystem funds to encourage development on Kadena and
expand the ecosystem to gaming, Metaverse, NFTs, Web3, DeFi, and DAO companies
and projects with proven business models.

Kadena believes in the potential of blockchain to revolutionize how the world
interacts and transacts. To realize this vision, Kadena has reimagined
blockchain technology and its connective ecosystem from the ground up.
