---
title: Pact 2.4 Is Out!
description:
  After a lot of hard work we’re releasing the biggest pact upgrade since last
  year. Pact 2.4 brings some very significant changes to further establish Pact
  as the premier smart contracts language for blockchain formal verification
  that can be used by the average developer, right in their smart contract code;
  and a new dependency-management system we like to call “no left-pad”.
menu: Pact 2.4 Is Out!
label: Pact 2.4 Is Out!
publishDate: 2018-06-04
tags: [pact]
author: Stuart Popejoy
authorId: stuart.popejoy
layout: blog
---

# Pact 2.4 Is Out!

After a lot of hard work we’re releasing the biggest pact upgrade since last
year. Pact 2.4 brings some very significant changes to further establish Pact as
the premier smart contracts language for blockchain: **formal verification**
that can be used by the average developer, right in their smart contract code;
and a new dependency-management system we like to call “**no left-pad**”.

## The Pact Property Checker

Pact 2.4 introduces a powerful new system to allow developers to specify
*properties *and _invariants_ right next to their code. Properties are used on
functions to establish behavior that must be enforced no matter what inputs are
provided, or what state the blockchain database is in, and resemble “contracts”
from languages like Racket or Eiffel. Invariants are rules governing database
columns, ensuring that no code that ever writes to the database can ever violate
those rules, resembling database constraints in traditional RDBMSs.

The big difference here is that these properties and invariants, along with the
Pact code itself, are directly compiled into SMT-LIB2 to be verified by the Z3
theorem prover, an extremely powerful tool that can test the entire universe of
inputs and database states with lightning speed, ensuring that the code can
never violate these rules. It’s unit-testing on major steroids.

You can read all about it in the [docs](/reference/property-checking)!

## Pact Dependencies: “No Leftpad”

Remember when Javascript
[broke the internet](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2016/03/rage-quit-coder-unpublished-17-lines-of-javascript-and-broke-the-internet/)?
A developer of a single-function library called “leftpad” (to pad a string on
the left, in an extreme example of over-componentization) deleted his library
from the Node package manager, removing it from nightly builds that power some
of the biggest sites on the internet, causing major downtime.

“Leftpad-itis” also struck in blockchain with the
[Parity wallet bug](https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/11/with-deletion-of-one-wallet-280-m-in-ethereum-wallets-gets-frozen/).
See, originally the Parity wallet was a huge mass of code that took a lot of gas
to set up, so the developers decided to share that code in another central
contract, making each wallet deployment much smaller. An amateur developer was
playing around with the shared code though and managed to delete the central
contract, immediately freezing $280M of Ether in broken wallets.

The point is, _dependency management_ — what code your code depends on — is a
big deal in software in general, and on blockchain it becomes mission-critical.
Pact has always *inlined *dependencies, making it impossible for upstream code
changes to break your (downstream) code.

However, this creates a new problem for upstream developers. It’s one thing if
somebody imports your “leftpad” code which (unless you’re crazy) doesn’t hit
your database. When a downstream dependency uses your service in such a way that
database access is involved, you could get into big trouble when an exploit
shows up, or you need to migrate your schema. Yes, as a reminder: contracts in
Pact are _upgradeable_ unlike some other smart-contract blockchains.

In Pact 2.4, we solve this problem with the _bless_ mechanism. Upstream
developers can explicitly allow (bless) or disallow (curse?) old versions of
their module, referring to them by the module hash. Blessed old versions will
continue to allow database accessing functions to still work, while un-blessed
versions will cause downstream code to fail. Meanwhile, non-DB code like leftpad
can never break a downstream dependency.

Dependency management is a deep topic that merits more discussion, you can read
the [docs](/build/pact/advanced#dependency-managementh304790584) and we’ll
be blogging more about techniques for schema migration with minimal disruption
to downstream code.

So head on over to the
[README](https://github.com/kadena-io/pact/blob/master/README.md) and learn how
to install the latest Pact today!

## What’s next?

The next major release of Pact will not take as long as this one, and will
feature some really exciting changes: API definitions, which allow you to define
a module signature or interface; full REST API testing of pacts, our coroutines
that make multi-transaction coding easy; a sensible gas model; user enum types;
and much more!
